F. No. NH-35014/ 0212023'H (E-2182981
Government of lndia
Ministry of Road Transport & Highways
(Highways Section)
To
1. The Chief Secretaries of atl the State Governments/ UTs
2. The Principal Secretaries/ Secretaries of att States/ UTs Pubtic Works Department
deating with Nationat Highways, other centratty sponsored schemes.
3. Att Engineers-in-Chief and Chief Engineers of Pubtic Works Department of States/ UTs
deating with Nationat Highways, other centratty sponsored schemes.
4. The Director General (Border Roads), Seema Sadak Bhawan, Ring Road, New Dethi.
5. The Chairman, Nationat Highways Authority of lndia, G'5 e 6, Sector'10, Dwarka,
New Dethi-l10 075.
6. The Managing Director, NHIDCL, PTI Buitding, New Dethi'l10001
7. Att CE-ROs, ROs and ELOs of the Ministry
Subject: Implementation of provisions related to asset management such as protection
of site from encroachment, cleaning of roadside drains, repair of potholes and removal
of waste material from Nationa[ Highways -reg. '
Sir,
-' -t 
The development of Nationat Highways with proper maintenance of att its assets like
main carriageway, shoutders, structures, roadside drains & furniture, ROW etc. with timety
repairs & inspections is the primary responsibitity of Ministry and its implementing agencies
as wetl as stakehotders inctuding contractors. At times, encroachment of ROW, pothotes,
btockage of roadside drains, dumping of waste material etc. can be observed on the
stretches of Nationat Highways. This resutts not onty in deteriorated quatity of National
Highways & compromised levet of service but are atso road safety hazards to the road users.
Z. 
With an aim to maintain National Highway assets properly, adequate provisions have
been provided in various standard documents used for construction/maintenance of National
Highways in the country. Clause 8.5 of the EPC agreernent specifies that during the
construction period, the contractor is required to ensure that no encroachment takes ptace
thereon and to report the Authority & remove the encroachment at its own cost in case of
any encroachment of project site. Atso, Ctause 14 of the EPC agreement specifies the
maintenance obtigations wherein contractor is required to promptly repair the pothotes,
cracks, joints, embankments, structures & roadside furniture, to report on unauthorized use
& encroachment of project highway, removing the waste materiat, rubbish & other debris to
keep project highway in a ctean, tidy & orderty condition etc. Simitar other provision are
also existine in EPC as we[[ as other modal documents.
144.27

3. 
Therefore, in order to maintain the Nationat Highway assets in top order & free from
encroachments, pothotes, waste material etc., the said clauses are required to be exercised
strictty. The Regional Officers/Project Directors/Nodat 0fficers of a[[ the imptementing
agencies shatl ensure pena[ action as per the contract provisions in case of faiture. The
concerned agencies shoutd take this on priority and for monitoring purpose, a weekly report
on action taken may be sent to Additionat Secretary (Highways), to monitor action being
taken.
4. 
The contents of this Circutar may be brought to the notice of att concerned for
immediate comptiance.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
Yours faithfutty,
s$e
(Sangita Toppo)
Under Secretary to the Government of lndia
Tetephone No. 01 1 -237 39028
Copy to:
1. Att CEs in the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways
2. The Secretary Generat, lndian Roads Congress
3. N|C-for uptoading on Ministry's website under ,,What,s new,,
Copy for kind information to:
1. Sr. PPS to Secretary (RT&H)
2. Sr. PPS to DG (RD) A SS
3. Sr. PPS to AS(H&LA)
4. 5r. PPS to AS&FA
5. Sr. PPS/PPS/PS to AS (MVL, Tott, Transport , lC,ERp,lT, NHIDCL)
6. Sr. PPS/PPS to ADG-I
7. Sr. PPS/PPS to JS(IAHE & Logistics)

