No.RW/G-23012/01/2019-W&A(Pt. III)
Government of India
Ministry of Road Transport & Highways
(Planning Zone)
Transport Bhawan, 1, Parliament Street, New Delhi - 110001
Dated the
13" January, 2023
To
1.
The Principal Secretaries/ Secretaries of all States/UTs Public Works Department dealing with
Nationa! Highways, other centrally sponsored schemes.
2.
All Engineers-in-Chief and Chief Engineers of Public Works Departments of States/ UTs dealing
with National Highways and other centrally sponsored schemes.
3.
The Chairman, National Highways Authority of India, G-5&6, Sector-10, Dwarka, New Delhi-
110075.
4.
The Managing Director, NHIDCL, PTI Building, New Delhi-110001
5.
The Director General (Border Roads), Seema Sadak Bhawan, Ring Road, New Delhi-110010.
Sub:
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Maintenance & Repair (M&R) of NHs - Reg.
Ref:
(i)
Ministry's Letter of even no. dt 23.11.2020 - SOP for M&R of NHs
(ii)
Ministry's Letters of even no. dt 15.01.2021 - Contract Documents for Short & Medium
Term maintenance of NHs
Sir,
Earlier, the Ministry vide letters of even number under ref (i) and (ii) has issued Standard
Operating Procedure (SOP) for PR / IRQP works and OR works for Maintenance & Repair (M&R) of NHs
as well as Contract Documents for Short Term (1 year) and Medium Term maintenance (3 years or more)
of NHs.
2.
It has now been decided that, for certain qualifying stretches of NHs, performance based
maintenance contract shall be undertaken. It has also been decided that provisions for medium term
maintenance contract issued vide OM of even no. dated 15.01.2021 stands withdrawn.
3.
Accordingly, following broad guidelines / Action Plans may be adopted for taking up effective M&R
of NHs stretches through the Short Term maintenance contract, Performance based maintenance
contract or PR / IRQP Works, as applicable:
-
i.
Short Term Maintenance Contract (STMC): These will be undertaken where DPR has been
completed / in advanced stages of completion / not required and development work is planned
to be commenced after a year or so with due consideration of the prospective appointed date
for such projects; for avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that the duration of commencement shall
also include likely period of issuing appointed dates. Contract period shall be generally one year.
If development work has been sanctioned and there is delay in giving the appointed date then in
such cases also short term maintenance contract may be undertaken however such contracts
need to be foreclosed at the time of appointed date. Multiple stretches may be combined under
a single contract depending upon geographical proximity and operational convenience so as to
have a minimum length of about 25 km or so.
4110.15

ii.
Performance Based Maintenance Contract (PBMC): Such contract will be undertaken on those
NHs stretches where road condition is generally good and structurally sound and no deficiencies
exist and either no further expansion
has been planned in next five to seven years or
development work is likely to start after 3 to 4 years. All NHs stretches wherein implementation
of one renewal layer would suffice traffic worthiness of such sections and where no capacity
augmentations are required to
be done shall also be covered under Performance based
maintenance contract. Such contract will generally include one cycle of renewal layer; renewal
layer may be implemented in phases in project length in a staggered timeline; however, entire
length under contract shall have to be covered by renewal layer latest within second year of
contract period which may be either 5 years, 7 years or more; for contract period of 7 years (and
above, if any), two cycles of renewal may be allowed and second cycle shall be implemented
before handing over the section at the end of contract period. Such contract to be done
preferably in a length of 50 km. If any single stretch is less than 50 km, then multiple stretches
may be clubbed together.
Development plan if necessitated in such stretches may be initiated well before expiry
of the contract and the existing contract may be foreclosed at the time of Appointed Date.
If development work has been approved on the stretches where such PBMC contracts is
in operation then in such cases, contract need to be foreclosed at the time of Appointed
Date.
For stretches being considered for award of PBMC just after completion of DLP of any
development project, it shall be mandatorily ensured that ail structures and pavements are
in serviceable conditions as per contract provisions. Accordingly all executing agencies and
Project Zones of the Ministry / ROs shall ensure that all necessary rectification works (if any)
are fully completed under all such projects before completion of DLP and taking over of
project section.
iii,
PR/IRQP Works:- Ail other remaining NH stretches (i.e stretches not covered under para (i) and
(ii) above), including newly notified NHs, where there are no ongoing works or the stretch is not
under DLP, may be considered for approval under PR /IROP work.
2.
It may be ensured that all the NH stretches in a particular State/UT are either covered under
development work, DLP or any of the above maintenance contracts. All maintenance contracts of
developed stretches should be initiated well before the closure of the DLP period so that just after
DLP, one maintenance contract is ready and the stretch is not left unattended.
3.
All new routine maintenance activities under OR(N) are targeted to be discontinued with
immediate effect from
FY 2023-24 and
all such activities are to
be essentially covered
under
performance based / short term maintenance contracts. Funds for OR (N) shall be released only under
exceptional circumstances effective from FY 2023-24. All Project Zones and ROs of Roads Wing may
accordingly take advance action to develop and finalise the
plan for implementation
of these
maintenance works and such finalised plans duly approved by the Project Chief Engineer need to be sent
to the Planning Zone latest by 31° January, 2022 for conveying the appropriate sanction ceiling.
4.
In general, entire contract maintenance requirement shall be prepared well in advance between
October to December of the preceding year. Based on the requirement projected by the State
Governments/Regional Officers/Project zones, Planning Zone will convey the sanction ceiling for the
particular category of maintenance contract based on the approved list by the Project Zone Chief
Engineer. Estimates may be got prepared parallelly and submitted to Ministry for approval. Estimates
must be accompanied with Maps, bar chart, lane configuration, condition of the road, DLP status, future
development plans etc. The entire sanctioning process should be completed by the end of the preceding

financial year. Bids for maintenance contracts may be simultaneously invited after the technical
approval of the estimates and contracts should be desirably awarded by 15" April so that maintenance
interventions of urgent nature can be completed before onset of monsoon and damages during
monsoon period are minimized.
5.
This issues with the approval of the Secretary (RT&H).
Yours faithfully,
{RanjitOt Roy)
Under Secretary to the Government of India
Telephone No. 011-23321729
planningmorth@gmail.com
Copy to:
All CEs in the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways
All ROs of the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways
The Secretary General, Indian Roads Congress
Technical circular file of S&R (P&B) Section
NIC-for uploading on Ministry's website under "What's New"
oPwnr
Copy for information and necessary action to:
1.
PS to Hon'ble Minister (RT&H)
2.
PS to Hon'ble MOS (RT&H)
3.
Sr. PPS to Secretary (RT&H)
4.
Sr. PPS to DG (RD) & SS
5.
Sr. PPS to AS&FA
6.
Sr. PPS to AS (Highways) / AS (NHIDCL, RT & MVL, RS)
7.
Sr. PPS to Pr. CCA, MoRT&H
8.
Sr. PPS / PPS / PS to ADG
9.
Sr. PPS / PPS / PS to JS (EAP) / JS (Logistics)

