1 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT REVISION OF IRC:82 “CODE OF PRACTICE FOR 
MAINTENANCE OF BITUMINOUS ROADS” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by H-6 Committee  
 
INDIAN ROADS CONGRESS 
2022 

2 | P a g e 
 
CONTENTS 
S.No.  
Description  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page No. 
1. 
 
Introduction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
2. 
 
Scope  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
3. 
 
Importance of Maintenance 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
4. 
 
Types of Maintenance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
5. 
 
Planning of Maintenance Activities 
 
 
 
 
5 
6. 
 
System Approach to Pavement Maintenance 
 
 
 
12 
7. 
Types of Pavement Distress, their Identification, Symptoms,   
 
Location, Causes, Severity Levels and Treatment 
 
 
12 
8. 
Preventive Maintenance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
9. 
Periodic Renewals  
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 
10. 
 
Materials and Methods for Rectification of Distress on  Bituminous   
 
 
Surface 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
11. 
 
Tools and Equipment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 
12. 
 
Arrangements for Traffic and Safety Measures during Road   
 
 
 
Maintenance  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 
13. 
 
Organisation and Management 
 
 
 
 
 
58 
Appendix-1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 

3 | P a g e 
 
Code of Practice for Maintenance of Bituminous Roads 
(IRC: 82-20xx)  
1. Introduction: To be added by IRC 
 
2. Scope: The scope of the document is as under 
 
2.1 By early detection of distress and appropriate repair of bituminous surface at initial stages, 
further deterioration of the pavement surface can be prevented or delayed. This code of 
Practice deals only with the “Routine”, “Preventive” and “Periodic” maintenance of 
bituminous surfaces.  
 
2.2 Several phases are involved in undertaking maintenance operations for bituminous surface 
as discussed in subsequent sections.  Sections 3 and 4 deal with importance and types of 
maintenance.  Maintenance planning and system approach to pavement maintenance are 
described in Sections 5 and 6, respectively. Types of pavement distresses, identification, 
severity, their causes, and methods of treatment are given in Section 7. 
 
2.3 Preventive maintenance is the need of the day and is described in section 8. Periodic 
renewals are covered in Section 9.  Sections, 10, 11, 12, and 13 deal with the materials and 
methods for rectification, tools and equipment, arrangements for traffic, and organization 
and management, respectively.  
 
2.4 Operations falling in the category of pavement rehabilitation and strengthening are beyond 
the scope of this Code of Practice. For design of rehabilitation and strengthening measures 
for existing pavements, reference may be made to the following publications:  
i) IRC:81 “Guidelines for Strengthening of Flexible Road Pavement using Benkelman Beam 
Deflection Technique”  
ii) IRC:37 “Tentative Guidelines for the Design of Flexible Pavements” 
iii) IRC:115 “Guidelines for Structural Evaluation and Strengthening of Flexible Pavement 
using Falling Weight Deflectometer” 
 

4 | P a g e 
 
 
3 IMPORTANCE OF MAINTENANCE 
3.1 The timely upkeep and maintenance of bituminous surfacing offers numerous benefits for 
preservation of road asset. The importance of overall maintenance is described below: 
i) 
Reduction in rate of deterioration and improvement in life of road  
ii) 
Reduction in Vehicle Operation Costs (VOC) 
iii) 
Reduction in crash rate  
iv) 
Keeping road traffic worthy roads in all weather conditions 
v) 
Reduction in pollution due to reduced fuel consumption on well-maintained 
pavement surface 
vi) 
Savings in budgetary expenditure of restoration/ reconstruction  
 
3.2 Timely and regular maintenance of roads have been known to provide economic rate of 
return as high as 15 to 20 percent depending upon the category of road and traffic volume.  
Moreover, it helps in deferring the demand for rehabilitation which otherwise is far costlier than 
preventive maintenance.  Therefore, timely and appropriate maintenance of bituminous surface 
using sustainable/suitable materials and methods is significant for preservation of road asset and 
to serve the intended purpose. 
 
4 TYPES OF MAINTENANCE 
4.1 Maintenance operations covered in this Code of Practice are classified into three broad 
categories 
a) 
Routine Maintenance: This covers items such as filling of potholes, repairing of cracks and 
patch work, shoulder dressing, drain desilting etc., which are undertaken by the maintenance 
staff all through the year.  Routine maintenance is also required for pavement markings on 
the bituminous surfaces to guide the road users and enhance road safety. 
b) 
Preventive Maintenance: Preventive maintenance is performed to improve or extend the 
functional life of pavement surface while in good structural condition. This may defer the 
timing for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation during the design life. 
c) 
Periodic Maintenance: This includes regular maintenance operations compared to 
preventive maintenance such as applying a non-structural renewal coat. Periodic renewals  

5 | P a g e 
 
are required to be carried out at specified frequency (scheduled response) or based upon 
condition and performance of road surface (performance based) depending upon category of 
road, traffic and climatic conditions to improve the riding quality and reduce the rate of 
deterioration of the pavements. 
5.  PLANNING OF MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES 
5.1 
All types of pavement maintenance need a comprehensive maintenance program.  Following 
guidelines are to be considered in planning of routine, preventive and periodic maintenance 
activities. 
The first step towards planning of maintenance operations is the evaluation of the existing 
pavement surface in terms of its physical condition as well as structural capacity. For this purpose, 
pavement condition surveys may be undertaken using manual or instruments by identifying type, 
location and magnitude of the distress as described in Appendix – 1. The rating of pavement may be 
assigned as per the criteria given in Tables 5.1 to 5.3 and determination of PCI for different classes 
of roads, are given in Appendix-2. Maintenance recommendations based on PCI value (0-100 scale) 
can be as per Table 5.4. 
Table 5.1 Pavement Distress and Roughness Index Based Rating for Highways 
Defects (type) 
Range of Distress  
Excellent to Good 
Satisfactory to Fair 
Poor to Fail 
Cracking (%) 
<5 
5 to 10 
>10 
Ravelling (%)  
<1 
1 to 10 
>10 
Potholes (number) 
Nil 
1 to 2 
>2 
Patching (%)  
<1 
1 to 10 
>10 
Rut depth (mm)  
<5 
5 to 10 
>10 
Maximum Permissible Range of Roughness Index 
Surface Type 
IRI  
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
Bituminous Concrete, 
Stone Mastic Asphalt, 
Semi Dense 
Bituminous Concrete 
<2.55 
<1800 
2.55 
to 
3.30 
1800 to 
2400 
>3.30 
>2400 
 

6 | P a g e 
 
Table 5.2 Pavement Distress and Roughness Index Based Rating for MDR(s) and Rural 
Roads  
Defects (type) 
Range of Distress (MDR and Rural Roads) 
Excellent to Good 
Satisfactory to Fair 
Poor to Fail 
Cracking (%) 
< 10 
10-20 
>20 
Ravelling (%)           
<10 
10-20 
>20 
Potholes (number) 
Nil to 1 
 >1 to 5 
 >5 
Patching (%)  
<5 
5-20 
>20 
Rut depth (mm)  
<10 
10 to 20 
>20 
Maximum Permissible Range of Roughness Index (MDR) 
Surface Type 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
Surface Dressing 
<4.03 
 
<3000 
4.03-4.98 
 
3000-
3800 
>4.98 
 
>3800 
Open graded premix 
Carpet 
<3.79 
 
<2800 
3.79-4.62 
 
2800-
3500 
>4.62 
>3500 
Mix Seal Surfacing 
<3.55 
<2600 
3.55-4.27 
2600-
3200 
>4.27 
>3200 
Semi 
Dense 
Bituminous Concrete 
<3.05 
<2200 
3.05-4.03 
2200-
3000 
>4.03 
>3000 
Bituminous Concrete <2.81 
<2000 
2.81-3.55 
2000-2600 >3.55 
>2600 
Maximum Permissible Range of Roughness Index (Rural Roads) 
Surface Type 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
Surface Dressing 
<4.27 
<3200 
4.27-4.98 
3200-
3800 
>4.98 
>3800 
Open graded premix 
Carpet 
<4.03 
<3000 
4.03-4.62 
3000-
3500 
>4.62 
>3500 
Mix Seal Surfacing 
<3.79 
<2800 
3.79-4.27 
2800-
3200 
>4.27 
>3200 
Semi 
Dense 
Bituminous Concrete 
<3.33 
<2400 
3.33-4.03 
2400-
3000 
>4.03 
>3000 
 
 

7 | P a g e 
 
 
Table 5.3 Pavement Distress and Roughness Index Based Rating for Urban Roads  
Defects (type) 
Range of Distress 
Excellent to Good 
Satisfactory to Fair 
Poor to Fail 
Cracking (%) 
<5 
5 to15 
>15 
Ravelling (%)  
<5 
5 to 10 
>10 
Potholes (number) 
Nil 
1 to 3 
>3 
Patching (%)  
<5 
5 to10 
>10 
Rut depth (mm)  
<5 
5 to 10 
>10 
Maximum Permissible Range of Roughness Index 
Surface Type 
IRI  
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
IRI 
(m/km) 
RI 
(mm/km) 
Bituminous Concrete, 
Stone Mastic Asphalt, 
Semi Dense 
Bituminous Concrete 
<2.55 
<1800 
2.55 
to 
3.30 
1800-
2400 
>3.30 
>2400 
 
Note: The defect type (%), number of pothole shall be calculated carriageway wise 
(considering all lanes/area of all lanes in one direction of traffic). IRI and Rut depth shall be 
taken as average value of all lanes in one direction of traffic. All data shall be analysed for 
100 m to 1000 m length depending upon the analysis type (project level or network level).  
 
5.2 For the purpose of obtaining/assigning the overall condition rating, Pavement Condition 
Index (PCI) value based rating methodology in 0 to 100 scale has been proposed.  
Present pavement condition can be quantified considering functional parameters influencing  
section’s performance and can be quantified in terms of a Pavement Condition Index (PCI). The 
proposed PCI varies from 0 to 100 where 0 represent pavement in failed condition and 100 
corresponds to pavement section in Excellent condition. Representation of different pavement 
condition corresponding to different values of PCI is shown in Figure-5.1.   
 

8 | P a g e 
 
 
Figure-5.1 Representation of PCI scale 
The functional parameters considered for the determination of Pavement Condition Index includes  
1) Cracking Extent  2) Ravelling Extent 3) Patching Extent 4) Pothole Number  
5) Rut Depth 6) International Roughness Index 
Different steps involved in determination of PCI are depicted in Figure-5.2. 
 
Figure-5.2 Procedure for Determination of Overall Pavement Condition Index 
 
100 
90 
80 
60 
40 
20 
0 
Failed 
Poor 
Fair 
Satisfactory 
Good 
Excellent 
Evaluation of Pavement 
Surface in terms of 
Distress Extent  
Evaluation of Pavement 
Surface in terms of Rut 
Depth (mm) 
Evaluation of Pavement 
Surface in terms of IRI 
(m/km) 
Determination of 
Individual Indices for 
distress (Cracking, 
Ravelling, Patching, 
Pothole)  
Determination of 
Individual Indices for 
Rut Depth  
Determination of 
Individual Indices for IRI  
 
Weighted sum of each individual 
index values for determination of 
Pavement Condition Index  

9 | P a g e 
 
The extent of the distress can be calculated as the area of pavement section affected by a particular 
distress using equation  
 
(1) 
 
Please note: “Surface area of Pavement Section” means total area of all lanes in a carriageway for 
100 m to 1000 m section length depending upon the analysis type (project level or network level).  
 
The number of potholes shall be calculated as per the procedure given below:  
No of Potholes =  
Surface Area of Pavement Section affected by potholes (m2)         (2) 
 
 
 
                    Area of Pothole unit (i.e. 0.1 m2) 
Example: If the total area of potholing in the selected road length is 0.5 m2, then equivalent number 
of potholes shall be = 0.5/ 0.1, i.e. 5 potholes for PCI calculations. 
After determination of all individual PCI values, the final value of pavement condition index can be 
determined using the weighted sum of each individual index values. The weightage for different 
functional parameters for calculation of PCI is presented in Table.5.4. The Flexible PCI Utility 
program (given in separate CD) can be used directly for calculation of PCI values based on the 
equations used for determination of PCI for different classes of roads, which are given in Appendix-
2. 
Table 5.4 Weightage for different Performance Measures 
Distress Parameter 
PCI Weightage 
 
Cracking 
0.16 
Ravelling 
0.12 
Pothole 
0.08 
Patch Work 
0.10 
Rut Depth 
0.14 
IRI 
0.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 

10 | P a g e 
 
The maintenance recommendations based on PCI value are given in Table 5.5.  
Table 5.5 Maintenance Recommendations based on PCI value (0-100 scale) 
Condition 
Excellent to Good 
Satisfactory to Fair 
Poor to Fail 
Excellent 
Good 
Satisfactory 
Fair 
Poor 
Fail 
PCI Rating 
>90 to 100 
>80 to 90 
>60 to 80 
>40 to 60 
>20 to 40 
0 to 20 
Recommendations 
Routine 
Maintenance 
Preventive 
Maintenance 
Resurfacing 
(based on 
structural 
evaluation) 
Minor 
Rehabilitation 
(based on 
structural 
evaluation) 
Major 
Rehabilitation/ 
Structural 
Overlay 
Re-
Construction 
 
5.3 Necessary information about the routine maintenance requirement shall be readily available 
with the maintenance staff who are expected to have information on  the physical condition of 
the road surface, periodically. However, for preventive and periodic renewal requirement or 
short term/long term maintenance strategies, condition surveys are carried out at a fixed 
frequency. It is desirable that at least two condition surveys are conducted every year on each 
stretch, first before and the second after the monsoon in case of highways and urban roads. 
Minimum one condition survey is required for other roads, preferably after monsoon. It is also 
desirable that pavement condition surveys on all two lane undivided and above corridors shall 
be carried out using an instrumented method such as Network Survey Vehicle.  For single lane  
and Intermediate lane roads, in the absence of appropriate instrumented survey methods,   
manual/visual surveys shall be carried out by a team of experienced engineers at a responsible 
level.  
Based on the condition survey data, the causes for the development of various distresses/ defects 
shall be examined in detail as described in Section 7 and a decision shall be taken for an 
appropriate maintenance activity. Type of maintenance activity to be undertaken shall depend 
upon pavement condition index as per Table 5.5.  
Where severity of distress on the pavement has reached the extensive level which adversely 
affects  the riding quality significantly and eventually smooth flow of traffic, these should be 
rectified by providing appropriate timely maintenance treatment. For other defects like minor 
cracking, and raveling, optimal maintenance  strategy should be adopted considering  various 
factors such as category of road, severity and extent of the distresses, budget  availability, and a 
decision may have to be taken whether to go in for preventive maintenance treatment, 
application of periodic renewal or strengthening. In other words, the planning of the various 
maintenance operations should be correlated and looked upon as a total system rather than each 
activity being considered in isolation.  

11 | P a g e 
 
A plan has to be drawn for preventive maintenance or periodic renewals depending upon 
pavement condition rating as given in Table 5.5. Once the overall maintenance plan has been 
drawn up, attention should be given to the proper organization and management aspects of the 
programme including deployment of various resources, i.e. men, materials and equipment, in an 
efficient manner. For each maintenance activity, the work at site should be carefully controlled 
so that the optimum output and quality are achieved.  
Condition surveys may be undertaken/carried out manually or through an instrumented method 
as per the guidelines given in Appendix -1.   

12 | P a g e 
 
6. SYSTEM APPROACH TO PAVEMENT MAINTENANCE  
6.1 Pavement Maintenance Management System (PMMS) is a technical or operational 
methodology for managing or directing and controlling maintenance resources, in a scientific 
manner, for optimum benefits.  It is a complex problem of matching  resources, time, materials, 
labour, equipment, funds, design and, above all decision making, whereas, Pavement 
Management System (PMS) consists of a comprehensive, coordinated set of activities 
associated with the planning, design, construction maintenance, evaluation and research of 
pavements.  A major objective of PMS is to assist the highway engineer in making consistent 
and cost effective decisions related to the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of 
pavements.  
6.2 The Pavement Maintenance Management System performs the following functions: 
i) 
To identify projects in need of Maintenance & Rehabilitation (M&R) and to establish 
priorities  
ii) 
Identification of the type of maintenance and/or rehabilitation required  
iii) 
Requirement of type and timing of future M&R 
iv) 
To minimize life-cycle costs or maximize benefits  
v) 
To predict performance of pavement in future   
     6.3 The prime purpose of maintenance phase in a Pavement Management System is to determine 
the cost associated with providing various level-of-serviceability for any given pavement.  This is 
an important feedback to planning, design and construction.  The type and degree of maintenance 
can also influence the rate and serviceability loss for a pavement.  It is reporting of maintenance 
practices and problems.  Hence, maintenance management is primarily managing the resources to 
provide an agreed level-of-service. 
7. TYPES OF PAVEMENT DISTRESS, THEIR IDENTIFICATION, SYMPTOMS, 
LOCATION, CAUSES, SEVERITY LEVELS AND TREATMENT  
7.1 General: The types of defects in bituminous surfacing are grouped under four categories.  
i) 
Surface Defects: These include fatty surfaces, smooth surface, streaking, and hungry 
surface  
ii) 
Cracks : These include all types of cracks, viz.,  hair-line cracks, alligator cracks, 
longitudinal cracks, edge cracks, shrinkage cracks, and reflection cracks  

13 | P a g e 
 
iii) 
Deformation:  These include rutting, corrugations, shoving including those caused by 
layer slippage , shallow depressions, settlements and upheavals etc.  
iv) 
Disintegration: These include stripping, loss of aggregates, raveling, potholes, and edge 
breaking 
The location and, severity of distress are important to select appropriate maintenance treatments, 
materials and technique.    
7.2 
Surface Defects: These are confined to surfacing and may be due to inappropriate quality 
and quantities of bitumen.  
7.2.1 Bleeding  
7.2.1.1  Symptoms 
A surface having a thin film of excess or free bituminous binder on it, which creates a shiny, glass 
like reflecting surface tending to become soft in hot weather and slippery in cold and wet weather, 
eventually developing low skid resistance is referred to as bleeding or fatty bituminous surface.  
7.2.1.2  Location 
Generally such defect develops along the wheel path but sometimes these are restricted to isolated 
locations and specific lanes. Many a time, these defects are seen on entire carriageway. 
7.2.1.3  Causes  
Bleeding occurs in hot weather, when the bituminous binder after filling the available voids in 
compacted bituminous layer moves upward under traffic movement and collects as a thick film on 
the surface.  The process is not reversible during cold weather, leading to permanent accumulation 
of binder on surface with passage of time making the surface fatty, slippery and skid prone. This 
can be caused by one or combination of the following factors: 
i) 
Excessive binder in hot mix due to faulty mix design or lapses in quality control  
ii) 
Lower voids in hot mix  
iii) 
Use of softer grade binder  
iv) 
Too heavy tack coat or prime coat 
v) 
Loss of cover aggregates in surface dressing 
vi) 
Excessive application of binder or non-uniform spreading of cover aggregate or 
flaky/elongated cover aggregate in surface dressing  
 
 
 

14 | P a g e 
 
7.2.1.4  Severity Levels 
A fatty surface may have different degree of severity depending upon reasons thereof. The severity 
of fatty surface and bleeding may be classified as low, medium and extensive. The isolated spots 
measuring less than 5 m2 area in a lane km and restricted to only specific lane with total area less 
than 1% may be considered as bleeding/fatty surface of low severity. Sometimes bleeding/fatty 
surface is confined to entire lane along with wheel path.  In case the area is in the range of 1 to 5%, 
it may be treated as fatty surface/ bleeding of medium severity. Extensive bleeding and fatty surface 
showing initiation of shoving shall be treated as fatty surface of “High Severity”. Photos 7.2.1, (a, 
b, c)  indicate low, medium and high severity level of bleeding and fatty surface respectively. 
 
 (a) Low severity 
 
 
 
(b) Medium severity 
 
           (c) High severity  
Photo 7.2.1 Bleeding 
7.2.1.5  Treatment 
a)  Low Severity: Minor bleeding / low severity fatty surface can be corrected by applying heated 
coarse sand  (passing 1.18 mm) to blot up excess bitumen in affected area followed by light rolling. 
b)  Medium Severity: Medium severity bleeding and fatty surface may be corrected by application 
of pre-coated chips; Passing 4.75 mm and  retained over 1.18 mm using 1 % bitumen and generally 
applied in a single layer followed by light rolling. In case the layer of bleeding is less than 1 mm, 
treatment described for low severity would be sufficient.  
c)  High Severity: The affected portion shall be milled out and repaired with mix of desired quality. 
The milled material i.e. Recycled Asphalt Pavement (RAP) mixed with fresh aggregates may be 
laid followed by application of slurry seal/microsurfacing treatment.  An open-graded premix carpet 
with low bitumen content can also be applied to absorb the excess binder. In the case of large areas 
of fatty surface, having irregularities, removal of the affected layer and replacing it with a layer 
having a properly designed mix, may be necessary.  
 

15 | P a g e 
 
7.2.2 Smooth surface (Low skid resistance Surface) 
7.2.2.1 Symptoms   
A smooth surface has a very low skid resistance and becomes very slippery when it is wet. Such a 
condition invites safety hazards, especially on gradients, bends, and intersections, Photo 7.2.2 
indicate a smooth surface.  
 
Photo 7.2.2A View of Smooth Surface  
 
7.2.2.2  Location 
Smooth surface may be restricted to a lane/carriageway.  
 
7.2.2.3 Causes 
A primary cause for a smooth surface is the polishing of aggregates under traffic. Excessive binder 
can also contribute to formation of smooth surface.  
 
7.2.2.4 Severity Levels 
The severity level of smooth surface may be defined by skid number. A surface with skid number in 
the range of 30 to 40 indicates low severity smooth surface while skid number below 30 indicates 
high severity smooth surface. However, it is further recommended that the user shall consider the 
latest guidelines issued by MoRTH / IRC to determine the ranges for skid number.  
 
7.2.2.5Treatment 
The rectification consists of resurfacing with a surface dressing course or a premix carpet or 
microsurfacing depending upon type of existing surface. Care should be taken to select aggregates 
which have proven non-polishing characteristics. The carpet can be an open graded mix. A slurry 
seal can also be used to impart anti-skid texture on a smooth surface.  
 

16 | P a g e 
 
7.2.3 Streaking  
7.2.3.1 Symptoms 
Streaking is characterized by the appearance of alternate lean and heavy lines of bitumen either in 
longitudinal direction or in transverse direction. Photo 7.2.3. shows streaking. 
 
Photo 7.2.3. Streaking of Bituminous Pavement 
7.2.3.2 Location  
Streaking may occur in a lane or carriageway.  
7.2.3.3 Causes  
Longitudinal streaking results when alternate longitudinal strips of surface contain different 
quantities of bitumen due to non-uniform application of bitumen across the surface. Some of the 
more common causes of streaking are mechanical faults, improper or poor adjustment and careless 
operation of bitumen distributors. These streaks can also be formed as a result of applying the 
bituminous binder at too low temperature; a temperature at which bitumen is not fluid enough to  
achieve uniform smooth flow from the nozzles on the spray bars. All these causes can result in 
transverse streaking also. Transverse streaking may also be caused by spurts in the bitumen spray 
from the distribution spray bar. These could be a result of mechanical faults in the distributor. 
Transverse streaking may result in corrugation in the pavement surface.  
7.2.3.4 Severity Levels 
Not applicable 
7.2.3.5 Treatment  
The satisfactory repair for longitudinal and transverse streaking is to remove the streaked surface 
and apply a new surface. It is always desirable to prevent longitudinal and transverse streaking than 
to correct it. Whenever mechanical equipment is used for spraying of bitumen, distributor should be 
carefully operated. 
 
 

17 | P a g e 
 
7.2.4 Hungry surface  
7.2.4.1 Symptoms  
Hungry surface is characterized by the loss of fine aggregates from the surface or the appearance of 
dry surface with fine cracks; Photos 7.2.4 indicate a dry and hungry surface   
 
Photo 7.2.4.View of Dry and Hungry Surface 
 
7.2.4.2 Location  
Hungry surface may be in full lane or carriageway. 
7.2.4.3 Causes  
One of the reasons for hungry surface is the use of less bitumen in the surfacing. Sometimes this 
condition may also appear due to use of absorptive aggregates in the surfacing.  
7.2.4.4 Severity Levels  
Not applicable  
7.2.4.5 Treatment   
Fog seal / liquid rejuvenating materials may be used for correction of dry and hungry surface. 
Slurry seal or microsurfacing may also be used as a repair measure, when applied in an average 
thickness of 2-4 mm.  
7.3. Cracking  
7.3.1 General  
Cracking of bituminous surfacing is a common distress seen on majority of roads in India (with the 
passage of time). Cracks in bituminous surface are classified into various types depending upon 
severity. Immediate attention must be given for sealing of cracks, and prevention of their further 
widening as ingress of water through cracks is detrimental to pavement structure and performance 
of bituminous surfacing. 
 
 

18 | P a g e 
 
7.3.2 Hairline Cracks 
7.3.2.1 Symptoms 
Hairline cracks are present in narrow area and their width is less than one mm (Photo 7.3.1). 
Hairline cracks are generally isolated and normally these are not interconnected. These appear as 
short and fine cracks at close intervals on the surface. Many a time, such cracks disappear in hot 
summer.  
 
Photo 7.3.1 Hairline Cracks 
 
7.3.2.2 Location  
These cracks may be at isolated places or in a lane/carriageway. 
7.3.2.3 Causes  
These cracks develop due to either insufficient bitumen content, excessive filler, improper 
compaction, oxidation of bitumen in surface or sometimes excessive moisture in granular layers.  
These may occur due to rolling of mix while it is still tender or due to excessive compaction. 
7.3.2.4. Severity Levels  
Not applicable 
7.3.2.5 Treatment  
These cracks may be treated by fog seal, application of liquid rejuvenating agents, slurry sealing 
and microsurfacing. 
 
7.3.3 Alligator and Map Cracking 
7.3.3.1 Symptoms  
Alligator or map cracking is characterized as a series of interconnected cracks, having small 
irregular blocks in pavement surface which resemble the skin of an alligator. These cracks may be 

19 | P a g e 
 
of different types depending upon extent and severity. The size of irregular shape blocks of cracks 
vary from less than 30 cm to more.  
7.3.3.2 Location  
Alligator or map cracks are normally appearing along the wheel path.  
7.3.3.3Causes  
The causes of alligator cracking are many. These are developed due to one or more of the following 
reasons: 
 
i) 
Excessive deflection of pavement surface normally at wheel path 
ii) 
Inadequate pavement thickness 
iii) 
Weakening of sub-grade or lower layers of the pavement due to ingress of excessive 
moisture to pavement and saturation 
iv) 
Overloading of heavy commercial vehicles 
v) 
Brittleness of binder due to ageing of binder and lowering of surface temperature due to 
weather conditions 
vi) 
Stripping of underlying bituminous courses 
 
7.3.3.4Severity level  
Alligator cracking may be classified as low severity, medium severity and high severity. (Photos 
7.3.3-a,b,c.) 
Low Severity: Low severity cracks are characterized by an area of cracking with very narrow 
cracks with almost no additional deterioration of the surface. The cracking is often isolated and 
many times, the cracking may not be interconnected to other areas and there is not much distortion. 
The depth and width of such cracks is in the range of 1 to 3 mm.  
Medium Severity: Medium severity-cracking is characterized by interconnected cracks forming a 
small area similar to the skin of alligator. The cracks may have signs of slight spalling, with no 
pumping visible. The depth and width of such cracks lies between 3 to 6 mm. 

20 | P a g e 
 
 
    (a) Low severity   
 
 
 (b) Medium severity  
 
 
(c) High severity  
7.3.2 Alligator cracks 
 
High Severity: High Severity alligator cracking is characterized by an area of moderate to severely 
spalled interconnected cracks creating a full pattern of cracking similar to skin of alligator. The 
width and depth in this case may be more than 6 mm.  Pieces of bituminous surface may be loose or 
missing. The pumping of water and fine material below the pavement may be seen on the surface. 
7.3.3.5 Treatment  
In order to repair a pavement affected by alligator cracking, the main cause of the cracking should 
be determined. However, often the specific cause is fairly deep seated.  Any investigation should 
involve digging a pit or coring the pavement to determine the pavement structural adequacy/ability 
as well as determining whether or not subsurface moisture is a contributing factor. The repair 
needed is also based on the severity and extent of the cracking. Treatment of alligator cracking may 
be done by following the methods depending upon their severity. 
a) Cracks sealing by bitumen emulsions  
b) Crack sealing by rubberized and modified bitumen  
c) Milling and surface recycling  
In case of a pavement being structurally inadequate or weak, a properly designed overlay based on 
evaluation shall be provided 
 
7.3.4 Longitudinal Cracking 
7.3.4.1 Symptoms  
Cracks that appear parallel to the centerline or along the road are called longitudinal cracks.  These 
cracks are also sometimes source of onset of alligator cracking.  

21 | P a g e 
 
       
      
 
a)Low severity  
 
     b) Medium severity                  
c)  High severity 
Photo 7.3.4 Longitudinal Cracking  
 
7.3.4.2 Location  
These cracks may appear at joints between two paving lanes or pavement and paved shoulders. 
7.3.4.3 Causes  
Longitudinal cracks in bituminous pavement are usually caused by alternate wetting and drying 
beneath the shoulder surface or by improper/weak joint between adjoining layers of pavement.  
7.3.4.4 Severity Level  
Severity of longitudinal cracks may be defined as low, medium and high. (Photos 7.3.4: a, b and c) 
The low severity is assigned to 1-3 mm wide and infrequent cracks medium severity is assigned to 
3-6 mm wide cracks. High Severity is assigned to cracks, greater than 6 mm wide and are frequent 
(numerous). 
7.3.4.5 Treatment 
Treatment for longitudinal cracks depend upon the severity and extent of the cracking: 
a) Low and medium Severity Cracks: Crack sealing, preferably using rubberized bitumen 
b) High Severity Cracks: Remove and replace the cracked pavement layer with fresh overlay. 
 
7.3.5 Transverse Cracks 
7.3.5.1 Symptoms  
These cracks appear in the transverse directions or as interconnected cracks forming series of large 
blocks perpendicular to the direction of the road. 

22 | P a g e 
 
 
                (a) Low severity 
               (b) Medium severity 
 
     (c) High severity 
Photo 7.3.5.  Transverse Cracks 
 
7.3.5.2 Location  
Transverse cracks may occur at isolated locations or in a lane/carriageway.  
7.3.5.3 Causes 
Transverse cracking may occur due to reflection of crack or joint in an underlying pavement layer. 
The low temperature brittleness or oxidation of bitumen and also structural failure at concrete base 
course are also causes of such cracking. Transverse cracks are usually formed due to shrinkage of 
bituminous mix on account of low temperature. 
 
7.3.5.4  Severity level  
Severity of transverse cracks may be defined as low, Medium and high (Photos 7.3.5: a,  b and c). 
The low severity is assigned to 1-3  mm wide and infrequent cracks.  Medium severity is assigned 
to 3-6 mm wide cracks.  High Severity is assigned to cracks greater than 6 mm wide and are 
frequent (numerous). 
7.3.5.5 Treatment  
Transverse cracks may be treated using slurry seal or rubberized bitumen.     
 
7.3.6 Edge Cracking  
7.3.6.1 Symptoms  
Edge cracking is defined as cracks which develop parallel to outer edge of the pavement.  
7.3.6.2 Location 
The location of edge cracking is normally 0.3 to 0.5 m inside of pavement edge. 

23 | P a g e 
 
       
        
 
(a) Low severity                    (b)  Medium severity                 (c) High severity 
Photo 7.3.6 Edge Cracking 
7.3.6.3 Causes  
The causes of edge cracking are many.  Lack of lateral support from shoulder, settlement 
underlying the bituminous layers, inadequate surface drainage, shrinkage in sub-grade soil, 
inadequate pavement width near curves, inferior quality material in shoulders and thinner 
bituminous surface at edge of the pavement and wet sub-grade are some of the reasons for edge 
cracking. 
7.3.6.4 Severity Level 
The severity levels of edge cracks are low, medium and high(Photos 7.3.6: a, b and c).  Low 
severity is with no breakup or loss of material, medium severity is with some breakup and loss of 
material (up to 10% of the affected length) while high severity is with considerable breakup and 
loss of material (more than 10% of the affected length). 
 
7.3.6.5 Treatment  
The following procedure/techniques are used for prevention or treatment of edge cracking:   
i) Promote good drainage along the edge of the road. Make sure that surface water will run to 
the nearby drain and not pond along the pavement edge. 
ii) Remove the dirty, poor draining shoulder material and replace it with a more permeable 
material. 
iii) If truck traffic is substantial, place a structural overlay on the road surface of the order of 
75-100 mm of hot mix to provide adequate support for heavier vehicle loads. 
7.3.7 Reflection Cracking  
7.3.7.1 Symptoms 
Reflection cracks are the sympathetic cracks that appear in the bituminous surfacing over joints and 
underneath cracked pavement. The pattern may be longitudinal, transverse, diagonal or block. 

24 | P a g e 
 
 
Photo   7.3.7. Reflection Cracking  
7.3.7.2 Location  
Reflection cracking occurs most frequently in bituminous overlays on cement concrete pavements, 
or on cement soil bases. They may also occur in overlays or surfacing on flexible pavements where 
cracks in the old existing pavement have not been properly rectified. Another condition under 
which reflection cracks can occur is when a pavement is widened. The location of the cracks will 
then be exactly on the junction between the old pavement and the widened portion. Reflection 
cracks may allow water to enter the underlying pavement and the sub grade and cause further 
damage in pavement.  
 
7.3.7.3 Causes  
Differential movement across the underlying crack or joint is responsible for development of 
reflection cracking. For joint reflection cracking, this is movement of the cement concrete slab 
beneath the bituminous surface because of the thermal and moisture changes. 
7.3.7.4 Severity Levels 
Not applicable 
7.3.7.5 Treatment   
The treatment, for all types of cracks discussed above, would depend on whether the pavement is 
structurally sound, or has become distorted or unsound. In case the pavement is structurally sound, 
then the cracks should be filled with a bituminous binder having a low viscosity so that it can be 
poured and worked into the cracks. Cut-back bitumen and emulsions are generally suitable. All 
loose materials are removed from the cracks with brooms and, if necessary, with compressed air 
jetting. The binder is poured with a pouring can and a hand squeegee is used to assist the 
penetration of the binder into the cracks. Light sanding of the cracks is then done to prevent traffic 
picking of the binder  
 

25 | P a g e 
 
If the cracks are wide enough a slurry seal or sand bituminous premix patching can be used to seal 
the cracks. If the cracks are fine and extend over large areas, a light cut-back or an emulsified 
bitumen (fog seal) can be broomed into the cracks and lightly sanded to prevent the picking up of 
the binder by the traffic. Stress Absorbing Membrane (SAM) or Stress Absorbing Membrane 
Interlayer (SAMI) may be used to seal reflection cracking and prevention of occurrence.  
 
7.4 Deformation  
Deformation may be restricted to one or more layers of bituminous courses or may extend to entire 
pavement and sub-grade. A change in the original shape of the pavement surface is known as 
deformation. It may be reflected in the form of slippage, rutting, corrugation, shoving, shallow 
depression and settlement.  
 
7.4.1 Slippage  
7.4.1.1 Symptoms 
Slippage is the relative movement between the wearing course and the layer beneath the bituminous 
surface. It is characterized by the formation of crescent shaped cracks that point in the direction of 
the thrust of the wheels on the pavement surface. This does not mean that the cracks invariably 
point in the direction of the traffic. For example, if brakes are applied on a vehicle going down a 
hill, the thrust of the wheels will be pointing uphill. The cracks in this case will, therefore, point 
uphill.  
 
(a) Low 
 
 
 
(b) High 
Photo 7.4.1 Slippage of the Bituminous Wearing Coat   
7.4.1.2 Location   
Slippage of bituminous surface normally occurs along the wheel path of heavy vehicles. 
7.4.1.3 Causes 
Slippage is caused by unusual thrust of wheels in a specific direction due to  omission or 
inadequacy of tack coat, lack of bond between the wearing coat and the lower layer caused by a 

26 | P a g e 
 
layer of fine dust, moisture or both. Failure of bond between two layers due to excessive deflection 
of the pavement may also be responsible for slippage of wearing coat or successive layer. 
7.4.1.4 Severity level  
Slippage may be classified as low severity and high severity slippage (Photos 7.4.1 : a and b). In 
case, slippage is at isolated locations in a lane, it is classified as low severity slippage. In case, 
slippage is along the wheel path in entire lane or carriageway, it is classified as high severity 
slippage. 
7.4.1.5 Treatment  
Rectification consists of removing the surface layer around the area affected up to the point where 
good bond between the surfacing and the layer underneath exists and patching the area with premix 
material after a tack coat.  
 
7.4.2 Rutting   
7.4.2.1 Symptoms 
Rutting is longitudinal depression or groove in the pavement along the wheel path. Rutting is 
categorized into three types and defined by the cause and layers in which rutting occurs, and it can 
be characterized by two components of the original (initial) pavement profile change, which are 
direct consequences of permanent deformation such as uplift and downward deformation.  
                          
              
    
(a) Low severity                                     (b)  High severity  
Photo 7.4.2 Rutting in Bituminous Surface  
7.4.2.2 Location  
Rutting generally appears along the wheel path.   
7.4.2.3 Causes  
The causes of rutting are the following:  

27 | P a g e 
 
i) Heavy channelized traffic and overloading of vehicles 
ii) Inadequate compaction of the mix at the surface or in the underlying bituminous courses 
during construction  
iii) Improper mix design, lacking in stability to support the traffic  
iv) Weak pavement due to poor sub grade and inadequate design  
v) Use of soft bitumen or waxy bitumen 
vi) Intrusion of sub grade clay into granular base course or use of plastic filler in 
GSB/WBM/WMM 
7.4.2.4 Severity  
Rutting may be classified as per the details given in Table 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 for different categories of 
roads.  
7.4.2.5 Treatment  
The rectification consists of filling of ruts with premix (open-graded or dense-graded) patching 
materials and compacting to the desired levels. The locations of depression are first marked on the 
surface and then limits are determined with a string line. After applying a suitable tack coat, the 
premix is spread and compacted. 
 
 
7.4.3 Corrugation  
7.4.3.1 Symptom 
Corrugation is the formation of regular undulations (ripples) across the bituminous surface. These 
are usually shallow (about 25 mm) and are different from the larger depressions caused by 
weakness in the lower layers of the pavement or the sub-grade. The spacing of the waves is 2-3 m. 
The corrugations can be a source of discomfort during driving and can become a hazard if allowed 
to become severe. A view of corrugated surface is shown in Photo 7.4.3 
 

28 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
 
Photo 7.4.3 Corrugation of Bituminous Surface  
7.4.3.2 Location 
Corrugations may occur near wheel path or in entire lane or carriageway.  
7.4.3.3 Causes  
Corrugations occur due to the following reasons:  
i) Lack of stability in the mix (excessive binder, high proportion of fines, too round or too 
smooth textured coarse or fine aggregate, too soft binder)  
ii) Oscillations set up by the vehicle springs can cause alternative valleys and ridges.  
iii) Faulty laying of surface course 
iv) Insufficient rolling/rolling a tender mix 
v) Braking action of vehicles on grade especially near intersections 
7.4.3.4 Severity 
 Not applicable  
7.4.3.5 Treatment  
If the surface is thin, the same is scarified; including some portions of the underlying base, and the 
scarified material is re-compacted. A new surfacing layer is then laid.  Cutting of high spots with a 
blade with or without heating and addition of leveling course materials can also be resorted to. 
Spreading of sand bituminous premix with a drag spreader with its blade adjusted to just clear the 
high spots can also be an effective way to make up the corrugation. The area is then thoroughly 
rolled.  
 
7.4.4 Shoving  
7.4.4.1 Symptoms 
Shoving is a form of plastic movement within the bituminous layers resulting in bulging of the 
pavement surface. Photo 7.4.4 shown shoving of bituminous layers. 

29 | P a g e 
 
 
                 Photo 7.4.4 Shoving of Bituminous Surface  
7.4.4.2 Location  
Shoving occurs characteristically at points, where traffic starts and stops (intersections, bus-stops), 
on hills roads or where vehicles accelerate or brake on grades and on sharp curves. The first 
indication of shoving appears in the form of slippage cracks which are crescent shaped cracks, with 
the apex of the crack pointing in the direction of the shove. Photo 7.4.4 shows shoving of 
bituminous layers. Shoving occur near the wheel path. 
7.4.4.3 Causes  
i) Lack of stability in the mix (excessive binder, high proportion of fines, soft binder) in the 
bituminous surface or base course.  
ii) Lack of bond between bituminous surface and underlying layer  
iii) Heavy traffic movement involving negotiation of curves and gradients  
7.4.4.4 Severity level 
Not applicable  
7.4.84.5 Treatment  
The rectification consists of removing the material in the affected area down to a firm base and 
laying a stable premix patch.  
 
7.4.5 Shallow Depression  
7.4.5.1 Symptoms 
Shallow depressions are isolated low areas of limited size, dipping about 25 mm or more below the 
profile, where water will normally become stagnant. The shallow depressions may or may not be 
eventually accompanied by cracking of surface. These may also lead to further deterioration of the 
surface and cause discomfort and unsafe surface to traffic. A view of shallow depression in shown 
in Photo 7.4.5   

30 | P a g e 
 
                                     
 
                                 Photo 7.4.5 Shallow Depression in Bituminous Surface  
7.4.5.2 Location   
Shallow depressions are generally restricted to wheel path/heavy traffic lanes.  
7.4.5.3 Causes 
Shallow depressions are caused by isolated settlement of lower pavement layers due to pockets of 
inadequately compacted sub grade or subsequent pavement layers.  
7.4.5.4 Severity level 
Not applicable  
7.4.5.5 Treatment 
Shallow depressions are made up by filling with premix materials, open graded or dense graded, 
and compacting to the desired profile as the surrounding pavement.  
 
7.4.6 Settlements and Upheaval  
7.4.6.1 Symptoms 
Settlements and upheavals are characterized by relatively large deformations of the pavement 
compared to shallow depressions. These are dangerous to traffic and cause reduction in speed of 
traffic. These are generally followed by extensive cracks over the pavement surface in the affected 
region. Settlements and upheavals are shown in Photo 7.4.6 (a) and (b), respectively 

31 | P a g e 
 
                                                      
  
               Photo 7.4.6 (a) Settlement in Bituminous Surfacing 
                                                         
 
                  Photo 7.4.6 (b) Upheaval in Bituminous Surfacing 
7.4.6.2 Location  
Settlement may be along the wheel path or at isolated locations in a lane carriageway.  
7.4.6.3 Causes  
The following are the causes for settlements and upheavals in bituminous pavements:  
i) 
Inadequate compaction of the fill at locations behind bridge abatements, over utility cuts, etc  
ii) 
Excessive moisture in sub-grade and permeable layer of sub-base and base caused by 
capillary action or poor drainage  
iii) 
Inadequate pavement thickness 
7.4.6.4 Severity  
Not Applicable  
7.4.6.5 Treatment  
If settlements and upheavals indicate any inherent weakness in the fill, it may be necessary to 
excavate the defective fill and do the embankment afresh under properly controlled conditions. 
Material having good drainage qualities should be preferred. Under-drains may become necessary 
in locations where lack of drainage has been identified as the cause of failure. Where the cause of 
deformation is inadequate pavement thickness, then properly designed pavement shall be provided.  

32 | P a g e 
 
 
7.5 Disintegration  
There are some defects which if not rectified immediately, result in the disintegration of the 
pavement into small and loose fragments. Disintegration, if not arrested in the early stages, may 
necessitate complete reconstruction of the pavement.  
 
7.5.1 Stripping  
7.5.1.1 Symptoms 
This defect is characterized by the separation of bitumen film from the surfaces of the aggregate 
particles, due to the presence of moisture. This may lead to loss of bond between bitumen and 
aggregate and subsequently to loss of cohesion in mixture. A view of stripped aggregate surface is 
shown in Photo 7.5.1 
 
 
Photo 7.5.1 Stripping of Bituminous Surface  
7.5.1.2 Location: Stripping is either localized or extended to lane or entire carriageway.  
7.5.1.3 Causes  
Stripping may be caused by the following reason:  
i) Use of hydrophilic aggregates.  
ii) Inadequate mix composition.  
iii) Continuous contact of water with the coated aggregate.  
iv) Initial over heating of the binder or the aggregate or both. 
v) Presence of dust or moisture on aggregate surface when it comes in contact with the 
bitumen.  
vi) Occurrence of rain or dust storm immediately after construction  
vii) Higher concentration of salt in soil and  rain water  
viii) 
Use of improper grade of bitumen  

33 | P a g e 
 
ix) Ageing of the bitumen leading to the embrittlement of the binder film.  
7.5.1.4 Severity 
Not applicable 
7.5.1.5 Treatment  
In the case of surface dressing, hot coarse sand heated to at least 150°C and spread over the affected 
areas, may be used to replace the lost aggregates. After spreading, it should be rolled immediately 
so that it will be seated into the bitumen. If aggregates are only partially whipped off, a liquid seal 
may be the solution.  In other cases, the existing bituminous mix should be removed and a fresh one 
laid. As a precautionary measure, a suitable anti stripping agent should be added to the bitumen, at 
the time of construction. Rejuvenating sealants, slurry seal or microsurfacing can be used to treat 
stripped surface.  
 
7.5.2 Ravelling 
7.5.2.1 Symptoms 
Ravelling is defined as progressive separation and dissociation of fine aggregate particles and 
binder from the bituminous surface. Normally, fine aggregates wears away first followed by coarse 
aggregates. The raveling process generally starts from the surface downward or from the edge 
inward. Pavement surface lead to rough and jagged appearance after occurrence of raveling. 
Raveling differs from fretting that it involves plucking out of surface aggregate by traffic without 
loss of cohesion.   
7.5.2.2 Location  
Raveling may occur on any part of a lane or carriageway. 
7.5.2.3 Causes  
Ravelling is likely to occur on a surface due to one or more of following reasons: 
i) Inadequate bitumen content in a mix 
ii) Overheating of bitumen during mixing process  
iii) Inadequate compaction during construction 
iv) Stripping of bitumen from aggregate due to water at interface 
v) Construction during cold and wet weather  
vi) Use of inferior quality aggregate prone to fracture, crushing and opening of new faces. 
vii) Use of absorptive aggregates 
viii) 
Excessive ageing of binder 
ix) Lack of performance related contract specifications 

34 | P a g e 
 
x) Improper filler / bitumen ratio 
xi) High intensity hydrostatic pressure due to combined effects of traffic and water. 
xii) Development of inclement weather (moisture, freezing) immediately after construction.  
xiii) 
Traffic stresses exceed breaking strength of mix 
7.5.2.4 Severity Level  
Ravelling may be classified to three severity levels, viz., low severity, medium severity and high 
severity(Photos 7.5.2.: a, b and c).  Low severity is when some loss of fines is associated with initial 
stage of binder wearing out, medium is when loose particles exist with some loss having binder 
wearing out to a rough surface and high severity is when surface is too rough with loss of 
aggregates. 
 
 
            (a) Low severity                         (b)  Medium severity               (c)  High severity  
Photo 7.5.2View of Ravelling 
7.5.2.5 Treatment   
The treatment of raveled surface shall depend upon severity of Raveling. 
a) Low severity raveling: The low severity raveling may be corrected by application of fog 
seal, sand seal or seal coat, slurry seal and microsurfacing 
b) Medium severity raveling: This may be corrected by application of  seal coat slurry seal or 
microsurfacing treatment in affected area 
c) High severity raveling: Depending upon condition of raveled surface and specification of 
existing surface. The high severity raveling may be corrected by single or multiple 
applications of liquid seal coat, slurry seal, microsurfacing and surfacing of thin overlay of 
appropriate mix specification like mix seal surfacing or open graded premix carpet. 
 
7.5.3 Potholes  
7.5.3.1 Symptoms 

35 | P a g e 
 
Potholes are bowl shaped cavities of varying sizes in a bituminous surface or extending into the 
binder/base course, caused by localized disintegration of material.  
 
(a) Small  
 
          (b) Medium 
 
 
(c) Large 
Photo 7.5.3 Potholes of Different Severity  
7.5.3.2 Location  
Potholes may occur in any part of road surface.  
7.5.3.3. Causes  
The most common cause of pothole formation is loss of adhesion in bituminous wearing coat due to 
the ingress of water into the pavement or due to higher voids in surface. The pavement gets 
weakened as a result of loss of cohesion, and under the action of traffic. The formation of pothole is 
aggravated due to use of plastic filler in granular base. If not attended to timely and properly, 
aggregates in the surface get progressively loosened to result in a pothole. Lack of proper bond 
between the bituminous surfacing and the underlying water bound Macadam base layer can also 
cause formation of potholes. Insufficient bitumen content in localized areas of the surfacing layer 
can also cause formation of potholes. A thin bituminous surface, which is unable to withstand the 
heavy traffic, can also cause formation of potholes, when associated with improper or inadequate 
camber. In dense-graded mixtures, potholes can be caused by too much fines or too few fines.  
 
7.5.3.4 Pothole unit  
The extent of potholing can be expressed in terms of ‘pothole units. Each pothole unit has a surface 
area of 0.1 m2, i.e., approximately 300 mm in diameter and therefore can be adequately estimated 
by reference to a person’s foot. For estimating maintenance requirements in HDM-4, the depth of a 
pothole unit has been assumed to be 100 mm i.e. a volume of 10 liters (Ref: Manual of HDM-4, 
Volume 6). Therefore, number of potholes shall be estimated based on ‘pothole unit’ with surface 
area of 0.1 m2. 
7.5.3.5 Treatment  

36 | P a g e 
 
The rectification consists of filling potholes with open graded or dense graded premix. Potholes can 
be repaired by various methods  
1. Mixes (cold mixed/hot mixed) for immediate use  
2. Storable cold mixes (cutback/emulsion Based)  
3. Readymixes  
4. Cold mixes by Patching machines   
7.5.4. Edge -Breaking  
7.5.4.1 Symptoms 
A common defect in bituminous surface is edge breaking wherein the edge of the bituminous 
surface gets broken in an irregular way.   Photo 7.5.4 shows this type of defect. In case distress in 
not attended in time, the surfacing may peel off in chunks at the edges.  
 
 
Photo 7.5.4.  Edge Break-up 
 
7.5.4.2 Location  
Distress is restricted to edges upto 30 cm from edge.  
7.5.4.3 Causes  
The following are the causes for edge breaking:  
 Infiltration of water which makes the foundation layers weak causing the pavement 
edges to break  
 Worn out shoulders resulting in insufficient side support to the pavement  
 Inadequate strength at the edge of the pavement due to inadequate compaction  
 Lower layer of pavement being wider than upper layers  
 Too narrow width 

37 | P a g e 
 
7.5.4.4 Severity 
Not applicable 
7.5.4.6 Treatment  
The shoulder and the pavement materials in the affected area should be entirely removed to a 
regular section with vertical sides. The pavement and the shoulders should be built up 
simultaneously with thorough compaction. A bituminous surface similar to that in the adjacent 
reach should be laid. The shoulder should have adequate slope to drain away water. A slope one per 
cent steeper than the camber of the bituminous surface should be provided for earthen shoulders. In 
order to prevent the edges from getting broken again, the maintenance operations should include 
periodic inspection of the shoulder condition and replacement of worn out shoulder material with 
adequate compaction. In sandy areas where the soil is likely to be eroded by wind and rain, it may 
be advantageous to have brick paving at least for some width to protect the edges. Surface and 
subsurface drainage, wherever deficient, should be improved  
 
8.  PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE  
8.1  Introduction  
Delays in maintenance increase the severity of distress in pavement leading to higher  maintenance 
expenditure. Preventive maintenance is a planned maintenance activity, which decreases rate of 
surface deterioration and extend service life of bituminous pavement. It is a planned strategy of 
maintenance activity for cost-effective treatment of existing roads and its appurtenances. The 
preventive maintenance activity preserves the system, prevents future deterioration and improves 
the functional condition of the system without contribution to load carrying capacity of pavement. 
Such treatments are cost effective, if provided on a pavement in fair to good condition. The 
placement of right preventive maintenance treatment at the right time saves pavement from leading 
to poor condition (Table 5.1 to 5.3), where rehabilitation and reconstruction would be inevitable as 
far more costly.  
 
8.2  Selection of preventive maintenance treatment  
8.2.1 Preventive maintenance treatments shall be selected based upon the condition of existing 
pavement. The cracking, rutting, riding quality, climate and traffic are given due consideration in 
selection of preventive maintenance treatments. The concept of preventive maintenance stipulates 

38 | P a g e 
 
that deterioration modes can be anticipated and at least partially mitigated before their occurrence. 
This provides following long term solutions.    
 Improved level of service resulting from improved pavement performance  
 Delayed need for rehabilitation and reconstruction  
 Life cycle cost saving  
8.2.2   For preventive maintenance applications, the following guidelines must be considered: 
 Existing distress to be treated 
 Anticipated distress to be delayed or prevented 
 Appropriate treatment for existing condition  
 Timing of  treatment for best results  
 Maximizing performance while minimizing cost  
8.2.3 A thin overlay may not be considered as a preventive maintenance, when it is applied to a 
distressed pavement in poor condition. Slurry seal/ microsurfacing may not be considered as 
preventive maintenance, when placed on an extensively cracked surface. A preventive maintenance 
strategy comprises following: 
 Identification of causes of distress  
 Measurement of distress 
 Selection of appropriate treatment  
 Timing of treatment  

39 | P a g e 
 
 
Fig. 8.1 Conceptual Illustration of Interventions 
8.2.4 Figure 8.1 illustrates timing of preventive maintenance treatment, while selection of treatment 
depends upon type of distress causes, severity, climate and traffic. Refer to Tables 5.1 to 5.5 in 
section 5 and conceptual illustration given in Figure 8.1, preventive maintenance shall be 
undertaken when drop in quality of pavement surface is less than 30% as quantified in Tables 5.1 to 
5.3 by pavement condition rating criteria. Preventive maintenance treatments shall be effective 
before the pavement condition rating drops below 2. The type of treatment shall depend upon 
pavement condition rating as well as type and area of distress. The detailed warrants for choice of 
the treatment are given in Tables 8.1 to 8.7.   
 8.2.5 Suitable preventive maintenance treatment may be identified by following attributes.  
 Purpose of treatment  
 Applicability 
- Traffic  
- Environment  
- Surface condition  
 Limitations 

40 | P a g e 
 
 Construction considerations 
 Expected performance  
 Cost effectiveness  
8.2.6 The typical preventive maintenance treatments are given below.  
 Crack sealing/ crack filling  
 Fog seal  
 Slurry seal  
 Microsurfacing 
 Surface Dressing 
 Thin overlays (thickness less than 40 mm) 
 Ultrathin friction courses 
 
8.3 Warrants for Preventive Maintenance 
 
The description and warrants for preventive maintenance treatments are given in Table 8.1 to 8.7 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8.1 Crack Filling or Crack Sealing 
 
Crack Filling or Crack Sealing 
Warrant 
Climate 
Traffic 
Conditions 
Addressed 
Limitations 
These treatments are intended 
primarily to prevent the intrusion 
of moisture through existing 
cracks. Crack sealing refers to a 
sealing operation that addresses 
“working” cracks, i.e., those that 
open and close with changes in 
temperature. It typically implies 
high quality materials and good 
preparation. Crack filling is for 
Treatment 
can perform 
well in all 
climatic 
conditions.  
Performanc
e is not 
significantl
y affected 
by varying 
traffic. 
■ Longitudinal 
cracking 
■ Minor block 
cracking 
■ Transverse 
cracking 
■No structural 
benefits,  
■ Acceptable if 
the extent of 
■ Structural 
failure (i.e., 
extensive 
fatigue 
cracking or 
high 
severity 
rutting) 
■Extensive  
pavement 

41 | P a g e 
 
cracks that undergo little 
movement.  Sealants used are 
typically elastomers modified 
bituminous materials that soften 
upon heating and harden upon 
cooling. 
cracking is 
minimal (little 
to no structural 
cracking). 
deterioration
, 
little 
remaining 
life 
Site Restrictions 
None. 
Construction Considerations 
Placement should be done during warm and dry weather 
conditions. Proper crack cleaning is essential to a good bond 
and maximum performance.  
 
Table 8.2 Fog Seal 
 
Description  
Warrants  
Climate 
Traffic  
 Conditions Addressed  Limitation  
Fog seals are placed 
primarily to seal the 
pavement, inhibit 
raveling rejuvenate 
hardened/ oxidized 
bitumen surface, and 
provide some 
pavement edge-
shoulder delineation. 
Fog seals are very 
light applications of 
a diluted bitumen 
emulsion placed 
directly on the 
pavement surface 
with no aggregate. 
Typical application 
Treatment 
performs well 
in all climatic 
conditions. 
 
Increased 
traffic  can 
increase 
surface 
wear  
 Longitudinal, 
 transverse, and block 
cracking  
 Raveling/weathering 
(loose material must 
be removed) 
 Bitumen 
aging, 
oxidation 
and 
hardening 
 No 
structural 
improvement, but can 
help reduce moisture 
infiltration 
through 
fatigue cracks (if their 
severity 
is 
low), 
however, 
not 
recommended 
for 
■ 
Structural 
failure (such 
as significant 
fatigue 
cracking) 
■ Friction loss 
(M-H) 
■Thermal 
cracking (H) 

42 | P a g e 
 
rates range from 
0.23 to 0.45 kg. per 
m2 
heavily trafficked road 
corridors/highways. 
Site Restrictions 
Not appropriate for surfaces with poor skid resistance, as it will lower the 
skid resistance further. 
Construction 
Considerations 
Typically, a slow-setting emulsion is used which requires time to 
“break,” the pavement is sometimes closed for 2 
hours for curing before being re-opened to traffic. 
 
Table 8.3 Slurry Seal 
 
Characteristics  
Warrants 
Climate 
Traffic  
 Conditions Addressed  
Limitation  
A mixture of well-graded 
aggregate (fine sand and 
mineral filler) and 
Bitumen emulsion that is 
spread over the entire 
pavement surface with 
either a squeegee or 
spreader box attached to 
the back of a truck. It is 
effective in sealing low-
severity surface cracks, 
waterproofing the 
pavement surface, and 
improving skid resistance 
at speeds below 60 km/h. 
Thickness is generally 
less than 10 mm  
Treatment 
performs 
effectively in 
all 
climatic 
conditions. 
 
Performanc
e in terms of 
surface wear 
is affected 
by 
increasing 
 traffic. 
Accommod
ate the 
higher 
traffic 
volumes. 
■Transverse, longitudinal 
and 
block cracking (L) 
 
■Raveling/weathering 
(loose material must be 
removed) 
■Asphalt aging, oxidation 
and hardening 
■ Friction loss 
■Moisture infiltration 
 
Adds 
no 
structural 
capacity; 
however, can temporarily 
seal cracks (if severity is 
low) or serve as a rut-filler 
(if the ruts are not 
severe and are stable) 
■ 
Structural 
failure 
(such 
as 
significant 
fatigue 
cracking 
and 
deep 
rutting) 
■ 
Thermal 
cracking 
 
 

43 | P a g e 
 
Site Restrictions 
Pavement is often closed for several hours to allow the emulsion to cure. 
Construction 
Considerations 
Surface must be clean. Aggregates must be clean, angular, durable, well-
graded, and uniform (prefer 100% crushed). Avoid placement in hot 
weather (potential flushing problems) and premature opening to traffic. Do 
not place when freezing temperatures are expected. 
 
 
Table 8.4 Microsurfacing 
 
 
Characteristics 
Warrants 
Climate 
Traffic 
Conditions Addressed 
Limitation 
Microsurfacing 
consists of a mixture 
of polymer-modified 
emulsified asphalt, 
mineral aggregate, 
mineral filler, water, 
and additives applied 
in a process similar to 
slurry seals. Used 
primarily to inhibit 
raveling and 
oxidation of the 
pavement surface. 
Also effective at 
improving surface 
friction and filling 
minor irregularities 
and wheel ruts (up to 
40 mm  
Effective 
in 
all 
climate 
conditions. 
 
Very 
successful 
on both 
low- and 
high- 
traffic 
volume  
■ 
Longitudinal 
and 
transverse cracking (L) 
■ 
Raveling/weathering 
(loose material must be 
removed) 
■ Bleeding  
■ Roughness  
■ Friction loss 
■ Moisture infiltration 
■ Adds limited structural 
capacity. 
Temporarily 
seals fatigue cracks (if 
severity is low) and can 
serve as a rut-filler (if the 
existing ruts 
are stable) 
■ Structural 
failure 
(i.e., 
extensive 
fatigue 
cracking) 
■ Extensive 
pavement 
deterioration, 
little 
remaining 
life 
■ 
Thermal 
cracks  
■Can 
accelerate the 
development 
of 
stripping 
in susceptible 
bituminous 
pavements 
Site Restrictions 
None. 
Construction 
Avoid placement in hot weather if there is potential for flushing 

44 | P a g e 
 
Considerations 
problems. Placement in cool weather can lead to early raveling, not to be 
placed when freezing temperatures are expected. 
 
Table 8.5 Surface Dressing 
 
Description 
Warrants 
Climate 
Traffic  
 Conditions 
Addressed  
Limitation 
Bitumen emulsion is 
applied directly to the 
pavement surface (1.2 to 1.7 
kg/m2) followed by the 
application of aggregate chips 
(0.004 to 0.015 cum/m2 
which are then immediately 
rolled to imbed chips. 
 
Application rates depend 
upon aggregate gradation and 
maximum size. Treatment 
seals pavement surface and 
improves friction. 
Treatment 
performs 
well in all 
climatic 
conditions. 
With proper 
design and 
placement, 
chip seals can 
perform well 
on high-
volume roads. 
  
However, use 
is primarily 
limited to 
lower-speed, 
lower volume 
roads. 
■ 
Longitudinal, 
transverse and block 
cracking 
■ 
Raveling 
/ 
weathering (loose 
surface material must 
be removed) 
■ Friction loss 
■ Roughness  
■ Bleeding  
■Moisture infiltration 
■ Adds almost no 
structural capacity. 
 
However, effective at 
sealing fatigue cracks 
in comparison with 
other treatments. 
■ 
Structural 
failure (i.e., 
extensive fatigue 
cracking and/or 
deep 
rutting) 
■ 
Thermal 
cracking (H) 
■ 
Extensive 
pavement 
deterioration, 
little or 
no remaining life 
■ Can accelerate 
the 
development of 
stripping 
in 
susceptible 
bituminous 
pavements 
Site Restrictions 
High-speed, high-volume roadways are often avoided, although a number 
of approaches are being used to extend the applicability of these 
treatments. 
Construction Considerations 
Surface must be clean. Treatment should be placed during warm weather 

45 | P a g e 
 
with chip spreader immediately behind asphalt distributor and rollers close 
behind the spreader. Approximately 2 hours required before roadway may 
be re-opened to normal speed traffic. Brushing is usually required to 
remove loose chips. 
 
Table 8.6 Thin hot-mix/cold mix Bituminous Overlays 
 
Description 
Warrants 
Climate 
Traffic  
 Conditions 
Addressed  
Limitations 
Plant-mixed 
combinations of 
asphalt cement and 
aggregate applied to 
the pavement in 
Thicknesses between 
about 15 and 25 mm  
Dense-graded, 
open-graded,  
premix and stone 
matrix mixes are 
used 
Treatment 
performs well 
in all climatic 
conditions.  
Performance should 
not be affected by 
different traffic 
condition  
 
Thin overlays are 
not structural layers 
and as such should 
not be subjected to 
strain from 
loadings. Such 
layers may be 
subject to top down 
cracking under 
certain 
combinations of 
loadings, 
environmental 
conditions, and 
pavement 
structures. 
Functional/Other 
■ 
Longitudinal 
and 
transverse 
cracking  
■ Raveling/weathering 
(loose surface material 
must be removed) 
■ Friction loss 
■ Roughness 
■ Bleeding  
■ Block cracking may 
perform better with 
additional milling) 
Structural 
Rutting 
(assumes 
rutting 
has 
stopped; 
requires use of separate 
rut-fill application) 
■ 
Structural 
failure (i.e., 
fatigue 
cracking) 
■ 
Extensive 
pavement 
deterioration, 
little 
remaining life 
■ 
Thermal 
cracking 
Site Restrictions 
Edge-shoulder drop-off should be considered. Surface should be uniform to 

46 | P a g e 
 
ensure uniform compaction. 
Construction 
Considerations 
Surface must be clean. A tack coat prior to overlay placement will help improve 
the bond to the existing surface. Thin HMA overlays dissipate heat rapidly and, 
therefore, depend upon minimum specified mix placement temperatures and 
timely compaction. 
 
Table 8.7 Ultrathin Friction Courses 
 
Description  
Warrants 
Climate 
Traffic  
 Conditions Addressed  
Limitation  
Relatively new 
treatment and 
consists 
of a gap-graded, 
polymer modified 
10 to 20 mm layer 
placed on a tack coat 
formed by the 
application of a 
heavy, polymer-
modified bitumen 
emulsion. Treatment 
effectively addresses 
minor surface 
distresses and 
increases surface 
friction. 
Treatment 
should 
perform 
well in all 
climatic 
conditions 
Capable of 
withstandin
g high ADT 
volumes and 
truck traffic 
better than 
other thin 
treatments 
■ Longitudinal, transverse 
and 
block 
cracking. 
Higher severities can be 
addressed 
with 
cold 
milling. 
■Raveling/weathering 
(loose 
surface 
material 
must be removed) 
■ Friction loss  
■ Roughness  
■ Bleeding  
■ 
Provides 
some 
increased 
capacity 
and 
retards fatigue cracking. 
Not 
suited 
for 
rutted 
pavements. 
■ 
Structural 
failure (i.e., 
significant 
fatigue 
cracking 
and/or deep 
rutting) 
■ 
Extensive 
pavement 
deterioration, 
little 
remaining life 
■ 
Thermal 
cracking  
Site Restrictions 
Ultrathin overlays should only be placed on structurally sound 
pavements. Localized structural problems should be repaired prior to 
overlay application. 
Construction 
Considerations 
Requires special paving equipment to place the mix. 
 

47 | P a g e 
 
 
9. PERIODIC RENEWALS 
 
9.1 Need and Importance of Periodic Renewals  
Periodic renewals consist of the provision of a thin surfacing layer at regular intervals of time, so as 
to preserve the required serviceability level of the pavement surface and offset the wear and tear 
caused by traffic and weathering. Periodic renewals represent maintenance, which is needed to 
prevent deterioration of the pavement and to ensure that initial qualities are kept up for the future 
requirements of traffic during the design life of the pavement. Early detection and repair of 
noticeable distress/ defects can prevent a major damage of the surface.  
 
9.2 Planning and Programming of Renewals 
The general practice in the country is to finalize renewal programme on an annual basis. In order to 
decide renewal layer on the surface, the renewal programme for each section of a road should be 
decided well in advance. Once the programme is finalized, steps could be taken to secure the 
required allocations and start the preliminary field action such as mobilization of resources. While 
the nomenclature “Periodic Renewal” would imply the renewal treatment to be carried out at a fixed 
and pre decided frequency, it would neither be practicable nor desirable to follow implicitly of any 
specified frequency irrespective of the condition of the road surface proposed to be renewed. The 
most effective way to plan a renewal programme is to carry out periodic inspections of the road 
surface at suitable intervals. In addition, special inspections are also necessary before and after the 
rains so as to assess the need for pothole repair and patching and other remedial measures required 
to be carried out either in advance or together with the renewal treatment.  
 
9.3 Identification of Stretches to be Renewed  
The stretches of the road showing signs of distress such as hungry surface/hair-line cracking, 
Raveling etc., should invariably be included in the renewal programme. This would ensure that the 
surface of the road and the pavement structure do not deteriorate further. The stretches of the road 
which would be due for periodic renewal on the basis of the pavement condition index and 
periodicity should be inspected closely and decision whether to include these in the renewal 
programme or to postpone the renewal for a specified period should be taken depending upon the 
condition of the road surface. In cases, the nature of distress/failure seen on the road is severe and 
of considerable extent and the causes are deep-seated and where it is considered the pavement 

48 | P a g e 
 
cannot be improved with renewal treatment, detailed investigations shall be carried out and special 
measures shall be undertaken for correcting the same.  
 
9.4 Types of Renewal Treatments  
The types of bituminous surfaces those can be adopted are surface dressing (one or two coats), thin 
premix carpet, mixed seal, stone matrix asphalt, hot/cold mix semi- dense and dense bituminous 
concrete. Microsurfacing in one layer or two layers can also be used for renewals. These surface 
have different life spans depending upon traffic and environmental conditions. 
  
The specifications adopted for the renewal layer on a particular road would depend upon the type of 
the original surface and its condition at the time of renewal. Following standards/specifications may 
be referred for periodic renewals  
 
i) IRC : 14 ‘Recommended Practice for Open Graded Premix Carpet’ 
ii) IRC : SP: 78 ‘Specifications for Mix Seal Surfacing(MSS), Close Graded Premix Surfacing 
(CGPS) 
iii) IRC : SP 79 ‘Tentative Specifications for Stone Matrix Asphalt’ 
iv) IRC : SP 81 ‘Tentative Specifications for Slurry Seal and Microsurfacing’ 
v) IRC:107 ‘Specifications for Bitumen Mastic Wearing Courses’ 
vi) RC : 110  ‘Standard specifications and Code of Practice for Design and Construction of 
Surface Dressing’ 
vii) IRC : 111 ‘Specifications for Dense Graded Bituminous Mixes’ 
 
The specification and the thickness of the renewal course should be such that, as far as possible the 
road surface is restored close to its original condition. For example, renewal over an original hot 
mix bituminous concrete surface would have to be bituminous concrete.  
 
9.5 Periodicity of Renewal  
Based on the experience and condition indices given in Table 5.1 to 5.3, broad guidelines for the 
type and periodicity of renewals are given in Table 9.1. This may be utilized as a guide for working 
out annual renewal programme on different sections of roads.  
 
 

49 | P a g e 
 
 
Table 9.1.  Suggested Renewal on Flexible Pavement 
Road Category PCI*  (Roughness Index, mm/km) 
Suggested Treatment** 
(Thickness, mm) 
NH, SH 
40-60 
1800-2400 
30-40 BC 
NH, SH 
40-60 
2000-2600 
30 BC/30SDBC 
MDR, RR 
40-60 
3000-3800 
SD/PC/MSS/SDBC (20-25) 
Urban Road 
40-60 
2000-2600 
30-40 BC/SDBC/2 Coat Micro Surfacing 
* 
When the PCI value of road is rated as <60, it is recommended that a detailed investigation 
is carried out to assess the strengthening requirement, if any.  In case, the pavement is found to be 
structurally adequate, then the periodic renewal will suffice. 
** 
Wherever feasible, recycling of wearing course may be preferred 
The priority of renewal treatment may be decided based on rating assigned as explained in section 
5.1, earlier.  If there are 10 roads (say), with ratings from 40 to 60, the roads may be arranged based 
on the ascending order of condition rating and the periodic renewal shall be prioritized in the same 
order subject to budgetary allocations. 
 
9.6 Rectification of Profile at the Time of Renewal  
The camber and super elevation provided initially on a road tend to get flattened out due to traffic. 
Before the renewal of surface is done, the cross profile should be corrected by means of a suitable 
profile correction course/leveling course, which may be compatible with existing surface 
specification.  

50 | P a g e 
 
10. MATERIALS AND METHODS FOR RECTIFICATION OF DISTRESS ON BITUMINOUS 
SURFACE  
10.1 
General  
The section 7 has dealt with the identification of the distress, measurement of distressed area, types of 
defect and their causes, and the maintenance measures to be taken up in each case. This section 
describes various materials required for maintenance methods, which are applicable to “Routine, 
Preventive and Periodic Maintenance”. Routine maintenance is covered in section 7. Preventive type of 
maintenance activities are covered in section 8. Maintenance operations of periodic nature are described 
in section 9.  Repair materials and methods discussed in this Section fall under three categories:   
i) Rejuvenation  
ii) Seal, and  
iii) Patching 
Rejuvenation of oxidized and hungry bituminous surface can be done by application of liquid 
bituminous materials. The seal coat is a thin application of bitumen, which shall be covered with fine 
aggregate/ sand. Seal coat may be premixed material or a spray application. Patching is an 
application of premixed bituminous mixture. Patching is done to fill potholes, correct shallow 
depressions, rutting and correct edge irregularities.  
10.2 
Bituminous Materials 
10.2.1 Paving Bitumen 
Paving Bitumen conforming to IS: 73:2012 is recommended for road maintenance works, unless 
otherwise specified.  Paving bitumen is classified into four grades based on viscosity, viz., VG-10, VG-
20, VG-30 and VG-40.   
10.2.2 Cut-back Bitumen 
Cut-back bitumen of different grades is required for cold weather construction as well as maintenance 
under all-weather conditions. Medium curing cut-back bitumen MC-800 conforming to IS: 217 is 
recommended for preparation of storable bituminous pothole/patching mix.  
10.2.3 Bitumen Emulsion 
Bitumen emulsion is a two-phase system consisting of bitumen, water and one or more additives to 
assist in formation and stabilization and to modify the properties of the emulsion. The bitumen is 

51 | P a g e 
 
dispersed throughout the water phase in the form of discrete globules, typically 1.0 to 25 µm in 
diameter, which are held in suspension by electrostatic charges stabilized by an emulsifier. Bitumen 
emulsions conforming to IS: 8887 are recommended for various maintenance applications including 
preparation of cold mixes and patching mixes. 
10.2.4 Foamed Bitumen 
Foaming of bitumen is a means of reducing the binder viscosity and increasing the binder volume. Foam 
bitumen is produced in an expansion chamber in which cold water, between 1 and 5% by weight of 
bitumen, is injected under pressure into hot bitumen to produce foam. Expansion ratio and half-life are 
two important properties of foam bitumen. The expansion ratio is defined as the ratio of the volume of 
foam produced to the volume of liquid bitumen injected. The life time of foam is expressed as the ‘half-
life, defined as the time after which the maximum volume of foam is reduced by a factor of two. It is 
measured in seconds. The foam bitumen is used for stabilization of recycled asphalt pavement.  
10.2.5 Modified Bitumen 
Modified bitumen is the binder whose properties have been modified by the use of polymers and 
rubbers. IRC : SP 53 and IS: 15462 specify different grades of modified bitumen for construction and 
maintenance of bituminous roads.  
10.2.6 Modified Emulsions 
Modified emulsions are defined as bitumen emulsions whose aqueous phase is generally modified by 
latex of the rubber. Sometimes, bitumen is also modified before emulsification. These emulsions are 
used for microsurfacing applications. The specification of modified emulsion for microsurfacing is given 
in IRC: SP: 81.   
10.2.7 Rejuvenating agents/Sealants  
Rejuvenating agents are used for restoration of physico - chemical properties of oxidized bitumen of dry 
and hungry surface or oxidized bitumen in recycled asphalt pavement. Sometimes, these rejuvenating 
agents are used as sealants. The viscosity value of these rejuvenating agents lies between 100-300 
seconds at 60°C by Say bolt fural viscometer.  
 
 
 

52 | P a g e 
 
10.2.8 Anti-Stripping Agents 
Anti-stripping agents are organic surfactants which are used to prevent stripping of bitumen from 
aggregate and to improve adhesion between wet aggregate and bitumen. Specification of anti-stripping 
agent are given in IS: 14982.  
 
10.2.9 Warm Mix Additives 
A warm mix asphalt technology utilizes chemical additives that have little effect on rheological 
properties of the binder. These additives reduce mixing, laying and compaction temperature of 
bituminous mixes. The guidelines for warm mix asphalt are given in IRC: SP: 101.  
Following standards/specifications may be referred for various maintenance treatments. 
i) IRC : SP:81 ‘Tentative Specifications for Slurry Seal and Microsurfacing’ 
ii) IRC : 100  ‘Use of Cold Mix Technology in Construction and Maintenance of Roads Using 
Bitumen Emulsions’  
iii) IRC : 101 ‘Interim Guidelines for Warm Mix Asphalt’ 
iv) IRC : 116 ‘Specifications for Readymade Bituminous Pothole Patching Mix Using Cut-back 
Bitumen’ 
 
11. TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT 
11.1 
General 
Use of mechanized methods and techniques for carrying out various maintenance activities are 
recommended for achieving efficiency and quality in maintenance operations.  Suitable tools, plants and 
equipment of appropriate capacity need to be deployed keeping in view the type and magnitude of the 
work and desired output.  Proper maintenance and upkeep of all maintenance tools, plants and 
equipment is very important to ensure quality work.  It is always advisable to follow equipment 
maintenance instructions and schedule as per manufacturer’s specifications.  Some of the tolls and 
equipment especially tend to develop inaccuracies and defects with usage and hence, their regular 
monitoring/checking and rectification is essential. 
 
Crack filling, pothole filling and patching works form the major part of the bituminous surface maintenance.  
While the crack sealing is generally carried out by manual methods, pothole filling and patching can be efficiently 
carried out by mechanized methods. 
 
11.2 
Pothole Filling/Patching 

53 | P a g e 
 
There are two main elements of durable pothole filling/patching; the material and the repairs process.  
For every combination of these two factors, the cost effectiveness of the overall pothole filling/patching 
work will depend on material, labour and equipment costs and the quantity of the work.  The most 
economical combination of materials and process to the extent possible should be adopted to produce 
long lasting and cost effective patch repairs. 
 
 
 
11.3 
Tools and Equipment for Pothole/Patch Repairs 
For carrying out durable, long lasting and cost effective repairs of potholes and patches, the following 
tools and equipment are generally required: 
 
i) 
Material truck (with hand tolls) 
ii) 
Equipment truck 
iii) 
Mechanical tool/equipment for pavement cutting and dressing 
iv) 
Compaction device (vibratory walk behind roller or plate compactor) 
v) 
Air compressor with pavement cutter 
vi) 
Spot mix (preparing hot/cold asphalt mix in situ) 
vii) 
Asphalt mix carrying and laying equipment 
viii) 
Traffic control devices and equipment 
ix) 
Mechanical brooms for highways and urban roads 
 
11.4 
Modern Mobile Mechanized Pothole Filling/Road Patching Technologies 
For durable and cost effective pothole filling/road patching, innovative indigenous and imported 
mechanized road patching technologies are available.  Most machines and techniques incorporate use of 
cold mixes, while some use infrared radiation technique for heating the road surface for use as patching 
material.  The following are some of the wid3ely used technologies for the purpose: 
 Machine Mixed Spot Cold Mix and Patching Equipment 
 Mobile Mechanized Maintenance Units 
 Jet patching Velocity Spray Injection Technology 
 
The deteriorated portion of the existing pavement adjoining the pothole should be cut and loose particles 
removed before patching of pothole. 
 
A view of various machines is given in Photos 11.1 to 11.7 

54 | P a g e 
 
 
 
            
 
Photo 11.1: Pothole Repair Machine which can be mounted over a vehicle (CSIR-CRRI 
developed) 
 
Photo 11.2: Vehicle Mounted Pothole Repair Machine (CSIR-CRRI developed) 
      
 

55 | P a g e 
 
                            
 
Phot 11.3: View of Patrol Maintenance Machine used in Road Construction Department (RCD), 
Bihar 
 
 
Phot 11.4: View of Mobile Highway Maintenance Van used in Haryana PWD 
  
 
 
Photo 11.5:  Spary Injection type Pothole Repair Machine 
 

56 | P a g e 
 
 
Photo 11.6:  Infrared Road Patching Technology 
                                                                          
 
Photo 11.7: Automated Pothole Repair Machine 
 
These equipment and technologies are for general applications for pothole filling/patch repairs.  Mobile mechanized 
maintenance units may be equipped for other applications also.  For more specific applications or other maintenance 
treatments, various equipment and methods that are generally used are indicated in Section 9.4 
 
12. ARRANGEMENTS FOR TRAFFIC AND SAFETY MEASURES DURING ROAD 
MAINTENANCE  
 
12.1 
Safety during Maintenance Work in Progress 
 

57 | P a g e 
 
12.1.1 The road construction and maintenance activities are an integral part of road network 
development and its preservation.  Maintenance of roads is a normal recurring and periodic activity.  
During execution of maintenance activities, proper arrangements for safe operation and movement of 
normal traffic, maintenance workers and equipment in the work zones are most important.  The road 
work zones are areas of conflict between normal operating traffic, workers, maintenance equipment and 
machines and work zone traffic.  Care has to be taken to avoid/remove conflicts between workers, 
maintenance equipment and traffic.  As a good practice, it should be essential to prepare a Work Zone 
Traffic Management Plan (WTMP) to provide for reasonably protecting the workers and equipment.  
WTMP should provide for continuity of the movement for motorized vehicle, bicycle, and pedestrian 
traffic, transit operations, and access to properties and utilities. 
 
It is equally important to ensure the safety of workers in Work Zones.  Work zones present constantly 
changing conditions that are not expected by the road users, which create an even higher degree of 
vulnerability for the workers present near the roadway.  A concurrent objective of the WTMP is the 
efficient construction and maintenance of the highway, as well as efficient resolution of traffic incidents, 
if any, likely to occur in the work zone.  The WTMP, therefore, should facilitate the smooth and efficient 
flow of traffic as well as safe working environment. 
 
12.1.2 Since maintenance operations involve considerable hardship, inconvenience and hazard to traffic 
and also hazard to maintenance workers, all possible precautions should be taken to make safe 
arrangements for traffic.  These include erection of barriers, signs, red flags and lights.  In order to 
promote road safety and efficiency by providing for the orderly movement of traffic on all roads during 
maintenance phases, road signs and other traffic management tools help in regulations of traffic and 
provide warning and guidance needed for safe, uniform and efficient operation.  
 
12.1.3 A road sign should meet the following five basic requirements for their effectiveness: 
a) 
Meet the requirement; 
b) 
Command attention; 
c) 
Convey a clear and simple meaning; 
d) 
Command respect from road users; and  
e) 
Give adequate time for response. 
 
Design, placement, operation, maintenance, and uniformity are aspects that should be carefully 
considered in order to maximize the ability of a road sign to meet these basic requirements.   
 

58 | P a g e 
 
12.1.4 The maintenance related activities shall confine to half of the pavement width at a time leaving 
the other half for use by the traffic, to the extent possible. Otherwise, diversion roads may have to be 
constructed or the traffic diverted to some other alternative route with a proper information arrangement 
about the alternative.  The maintenance operation itself can be conveniently confined to a small length at 
a time.  The appropriate warning sign to be used such as “Men at Work” sign during working, or the 
“Narrow Road Ahead” sign if half of the road width is available for traffic, should also be displayed.  
During night, there should be adequate lighting with red reflectors/flashers/blinkers.  All signs shall be 
in accordance with IRC 67 ‘Code of Practice for Road Signs.’  For further guidance and details on safety 
measures and traffic management during maintenance, IRC:SP 55 “Guidelines on Traffic Management 
in Work Zones” may be referred to. 
 
12.2 
Road Signs, Pavement Markings and other Traffic Control Devices 
 
12.2.1 After completion of the maintenance work, the existing road markings, road signs etc. shall be 
restored to ensure safe and smooth movement of traffic.  The maintenance staff shall keep the road 
authority informed of deficiencies, if any, observed in road signage, markings and other traffic control 
devices.  Safety measures for necessary action to remove the deficiencies, is warranted to be identified 
for implementation therefore, as per relevant IRC Standard and Codes of Practice.  
   
13. ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT 
 
13. 1 Maintenance of a road requires proper planning, programming and adequate tools, equipment, 
machinery and skilled workers/operators to carry out the required maintenance activities.  There should 
be well equipped dedicated maintenance units or divisions within the organization in order to achieve 
the intended purpose in an effective and efficient manner.  For primary roads, the nodal agency to 
identify the priorities and initiate action related to maintenance implementation is either MORTH or 
NHAI.  In case of secondary and tertiary roads, the maintenance is the responsibility of the State 
governments whereas urban roads are looked after by the local bodies.  The traditional method of 
maintenance of roads by departmental work force or road gangs is being phased out and the road 
authorities are exploring alternative methods of implementing maintenance.  Maintenance by contract is 
perceived as an efficient method.  While it has been in practice since long and used successfully for 
implementing renewal programmes, the experience of road agencies with contracting out of routine 
maintenance has not been so successful and most road agencies have not yet switched over to routine 
maintenance contracts.  This may be due to lack of standardization of contract forms and non-
availability of maintenance contractors.  Considering the size of the country’s road network and road 

59 | P a g e 
 
hierarchy, several forms and methods of implementing routine maintenance may be required to choose 
the one most suited to a road agency.  Efforts are underway in this direction to standardize various types 
of maintenance contracts.  In addition to this, availability and development of maintenance contractors 
requires to be addressed in a big way.  During the transition period, the road agencies have to modernize 
the existing system to bring in efficiency, productivity and improved performance by introducing 
mechanization, mobile maintenance units, new and energy saving materials and institutionalizing 
dedicated maintenance set up.  The effort should continue to be to move towards contracting out 
maintenance. This would require assured funding and effective supervision.  Some model bidding 
documents for road maintenance have been developed for use of road agencies and these documents 
incorporate provisions for performance security, maintenance standards, performance criteria, simplified 
payment procedure, damages for non-performance, etc so as to ensure that the contractor is held 
accountable for the performance of maintenance.   
 
13.2 
Performance Based Maintenance Contracting (PBMC) is widely used for maintenance of roads.  
The contract specifies objective performance standards which define the road condition to which the 
roads are to be maintained and not allowed to fall below the specified level any time over the 
maintenance contract period.  Monthly lump sum payments are made for maintenance on the basis of the 
accepted contract price.  Monthly lump sum payments are subject to deductions if the required 
performance standard is not achieved.  The deductions are effected as specified in the contract.  
Effective supervision is required to ensure that there is no deficiency in the performance of maintenance 
and condition of the roads and road assets included in the contract is maintained to the specified level.   
  
13.3 
For routine maintenance of low volume roads use of labor based and semi-mechanized methods 
are generally preferred.  As the traffic increases, the level of mechanization should also increase for 
carrying out maintenance efficiently.  For maintenance of roads carrying high volumes of traffic, 
machine based methods and technologies capable of carrying out maintenance with speed and safety and 
causing minimum interruptions in movement of traffic are recommended. 
 
13.4 Planning and scheduling of the maintenance operations should be given due importance. The 
annual renewal programme should be drawn up well in advance keeping in view the condition of the 
surface and any improvement work carried out recently or scheduled to be taken up in the near future. In 
case sufficient funds are not available for renewal works, the priority may be decided following the 
suggested criteria given in Section 9.5.  This would enable the field engineers to plan and implement 
maintenance programmes in a rational manner and according to available budget. 

 
60
 
APPENDIX-1 
 
METHODOLOGY FOR PAVEMENT CONDITION SURVEY 
 
Pavement condition surveys 
 
Pavement condition surveys can be broadly classified into manual methods  and instrumented 
condition surveys. While manual methods are cumbersome, slow to perform and includes 
safety risks, automated surveys can be conducted at fairly high speed with greater level of 
precision. Manual survey also requires well trained surveyors for measurement of distress or 
defect values.  
 
Manual Method (Not recommended for Expressways, Highways and Urban Roads):  
Physical distress is identified and a quantitative visual assessment of distress is made by a 
well experienced/ trained team of 3-4 persons while moving in a vehicle at a speed of 8-10 
km/hr. 
While recording the distresses the details for the following pavement surface distresses are 
visually noted and recorded in individual percentage for each km length in Proforma 1. 
1. 
Cracking (Alligator or fatigue cracking, Longitudinal and transverse cracking) * 
2. 
Bleeding 
3. 
Depressions/Settlements 
4. 
Pothole* 
5. 
Patching* 
6. 
Ravelling* 
The Rut Depth* values are recorded using a 3 m straight edge.  
 
*Used for calculation of PCI 
 
In project level based maintenance strategies more precise condition data may be required 
and hence actual measurements of all the above distresses need to be measured in smaller 
representative sections.  In such cases, the required information with measurements may be 
collected from field and recorded in Proforma 2 

 
61
Instrumented Method 
This method involves use of advanced laser and camera based system for recording of 
international roughness index, rut depth and pavement surface distresses from a moving 
vehicle. Examples are Automatic Road Survey System (ARSS) / Network Survey Vehicle 
(NSV), which have become popular to record and assess pavement surface automatically at 
highway speeds and recommended for expressways, highways and urban roads.  
 
Guidelines for selection of Appropriate Equipment for pavement Condition Survey 
 
A user can decide the appropriate method for assessment of pavement condition based on the 
type of the road network. The details are summarised in Tables A.1  
 
Table A1.1 Evaluation of Pavement Surface Condition Parameters 
Road Category 
Roughness  
Surface Distress  
 
Rut Depth (mm) 
Four Lane Divided 
or More  
 
It is recommended 
that the roughness of 
the 
existing 
pavement shall be 
assessed in terms of 
Roughness 
Index 
(mm/km) 
or 
International 
Roughness 
Index 
(m/km) as per the 
procedure given in 
IRC SP: 16-2019 
document.  
 
ARSS/NSV 
ARSS/NSV 
Two Lane  
ARSS/NSV 
 
ARSS/NSV 
Single/Intermediate 
Lane  
ARSS/NSV or  
Visual Survey  
ARSS/NSV or  
Manual using a 3 m straight 
edge 
ARSS-Automatic Road Survey System; NSV-Network Survey Vehicle  
 
 
A brief description of Automated Road Survey System (ARSS)/Network Survey Vehicle (NSV) 
 
A typical ARSS/NSV shall equipped with the following major equipment or based on better 
technology: 
 
 
Distance Measuring Instrument (DMI)  
 
 
Global Positioning System (GPS)-Real Time Differential Global Positioning System are used 
to capture longitude, latitude and altitude of the road assets.  

 
62
 
 
Roughness using Laser Profilometer (LP)-Two laser sensors installed at both ends of Laser 
Profilometer are used to collect road profile along left and right wheel paths of the road for 
the computation of Left IRI and Right IRI (IRI-International Roughness Index). 
 
 
Mean Profile Depth (MPD) using Laser Profilometer (LP)-High frequency laser sensors 
installed in Laser Profilometer are used to collect Mean Profile Depth (MPD) data for the 
assessment of pavement surface macro texture. 
 
 
Pavement Distress Measurement System (PDMS)-Survey systems installed with High 
Resolution Cameras; Laser based Crack Measurement System, LiDAR etc., provides 
automated collection of pavement surface images for quantification of pavement surface 
distresses. 
 
 
Road Inventory using Right-of-Way Video Imaging System (ROW-VIS)-Survey systems 
installed with one or more high resolution color cameras are used to collect right-of-way 
information.  
 
 
Rut measurement using Automatic Rut Measurement System (ARMS)-Survey systems 
installed with Multi–Point Laser Sensors, Laser spectrum based Rut Measurement System, 
Laser based Crack Measurement System, LiDAR etc. are used for measurement of rut depth. 
 
 
Geometry details using Geometry Measurement System (GMS)-These systems are equipped 
with inertial sensors such as inclinometer, gyroscope etc. to measure the geometric details of 
the road network. 
 
Various parameters recorded by ARSS/NSV are presented in Table A1.2.  
 

 
63
Table A1.2.  Parameters recorded by ARSS/NSV 
Parameter Recorded 
Equipment /Technologies 
Distance Measurement 
Distance Measurement Instrument (DMI )
connected to the wheel axle to provide distance 
and speed information. 
Geographical Position and Geo Referencing 
GPS equipped with the vehicle is capable of 
recording location coordinates of vehicle as well 
as geo reference important road assets. 
Roughness and Texture 
Roughness is measured in terms of IRI, from the 
longitudinal profile of the road generated with 
help of Class-1 Laser Profilometer and Texture as 
Mean Profile Depth (MPD) 
Pavement Surface Distress  
Pavement Distress Measurement System (PDMS) 
using High Resolution Camera, Laser Crack 
Measurement System, LiDAR etc.,  
Road Inventory  
Right-of-Way Video Imaging System (ROW-
VIS) using High Resolution Color Camera or 
LiDAR 
Rut measurement 
Automatic Rut Measurement System (ARMS) 
using Multi–point Laser, Laser Rut Measurement 
System, Laser Crack Measurement System, 
LiDAR 
Geometric Details 
Geometric details like gradient, rise and fall, 
cross slope and horizontal curvature are measured 
with Geometry Measurement System (GMS), 
which is normally based on accelerometer and 
gyroscope sensors. 
 
The use of this equipment for pavement surface condition assessment is recommended for 
two lanes and four lane divided and above corridors.  

 
64 
 
Proforma- 1 
VISUAL SURFACE DISTRESS MEASUREMENT 
Name of the Road: 
Carriageway Width (m): 
Chainage of Test Section: 
Date of Observation: 
Type of Surface: 
Weather Condition: 
Chainage 
Cracks* 
Patch 
Work* 
Potholes* 
Bleeding 
Depression 
Edge 
Breaking 
Ravelling* 
Shoving 
Rut 
Depth* 
Drainage & 
Shoulder 
condition 
Total  
 
From  
To 
 (%) 
 (%) 
 (Nos) 
 (%) 
 (%) 
 (%) 
 (%) 
 (%) 
 (mm) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
*Only these distress parameters will be used for calculation of PCI value 
 
 
Name of Team Leader_____________________ 
Signature of Team Leader__________________ 

 
65 
 
Proforma- 2  
MEASUREMENT OF SURFACE DISTRESS 
 (FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT SECTION) 
 
Cracks with 
Type* 
Patch Work* 
Potholes* 
Bleeding 
Depression/ 
Settlement 
Edge Breaking 
Ravelling* 
Shoving 
 
Rut 
Depth  
(mm)* 
Drainage and 
Shoulder    
Condition 
Size (m) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
Size (m) (LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
Size (mm) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(mm2) 
Depth 
(mm) 
Size (m) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
Size (m) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
Size (m) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
Size (m) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
Size (m) 
(LxB) 
Area 
(m2) 
*Only these distress parameters will be used for calculation of PCI value 
 
 
 
Name of Team Leader_____________________ 
Signature of Team Leader__________________ 
 
Name and Number of the Road 
 
Carriageway Width (m) : 
Chainage of Test Section : 
Km………..to Km………… 
Date of Observation: 
Chainage of  Sub-Section  : 
Km ……….to Km……….. 
Weather Condition : 
Type of Surface  : 
 
 
 
 
 

 
66 
APPENDIX-2: Determination of PCI for different classes of Roads 
Table A2.1 PCI based ratings for Highways  
Defects 
(Type) 
Equations 
Curve 
Cracking 
(%) 
 
 
 
 
Where CE=Crack Extent 

 
67 
Ravelling 
(%) 
 
 
 
Where RE=Ravelling Extent 
Pothole 
(Number) 
 
 
 
 
 Where PN=Pothole Number 

 
68 
Patching (%) 
 
 
 
Where PE=Patch Extent 

 
69 
Rut Depth 
(mm) 
 
 
 
Where RD = Rut Depth  (mm) 
Roughness 
(IRI) 
 
 
 
 
 

 
70 
Table A2.1 PCI based ratings for MDR and Rural Roads 
Part A (MDR) 
Defects 
(Type) 
Equations 
Curve 
Cracking 
(%) 
 
 
 
 
Where CE=Crack Extent 

 
71 
Ravelling 
(%) 
 
 
 
 
Where RE=Reveling Extent 
Pothole 
(Number) 
 
 
 
 
 
Where PN= Pothole Number 

 
72 
Patching 
(%) 
 
 
 
 
Where PE = Patch Extent 
Rut Depth 
(mm) 
 
 
 
 
Where RD=Rut Depth (mm) 

 
73 
Roughness 
(IRI) 
Surface 
Dressing 
(SD) 
 
 
 
Open 
Graded 
Premix 
Carpet 
(OGPC) 
 
 
Mix Seal 
Surfacing 
(MSS) 
 
 
Semi 
Dense 
Bituminous 
Course 
(SDBC) 
 
 
Bituminous 
Concrete 
(BC) 
 
 
 
Part B (Rural Roads) 
Defects 
(Type) 
Equations 
Curve 

 
74 
Cracking 
(%) 
 
 
 
 
Where CE=Crack Extent 
Ravelling 
(%) 
 
 
 
 
Where RE= Ravelling Extent 

 
75 
Pothole 
(Number) 
 
 
 
 
 
Where PN= Pothole Number 
Patching 
(%) 
 
 
 
Where PE= Patch Extent 

 
76 
Rut Depth 
(mm) 
 
 
 
 
Where RD=Rut Depth (mm) 
 
Roughness 
(IRI) 
Surface 
Dressing 
(SD) 
 
 
 
Open 
Graded 
Premix 
Carpet 
(OGPC) 
 
 
Mix Seal 
Surfacing 
(MSS) 
 
 
Semi 
Dense 
Bituminous 
Course 
(SDBC) 
 
 
 
 

 
77 
Table A2.2 PCI based ratings for Urban Roads 
Defects 
(Type) 
Equations 
Curve 
Cracking (%) 
 
 
 
Where CE=Crack Extent 
Ravelling (%) 
 
 
 
Where RE = Ravelling Extent 

 
78 
Pothole 
(Number) 
 
 
 
 
Where PN = Pothole Number 
 
Patching (%) 
 
 
 
Where PE = Patch Extent 

 
79 
Rut Depth 
(mm)  
 
 
 
Where RD = Rut Depth  (mm) 
Roughness 
(IRI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
80 
1. Examples  
 
A. Highways: Expressways, National Highways and State Highways 
 
A.1 Excellent to Good Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
0.5 
93.36 
Routine Maintenance 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
0.3 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
0 
4. 
Patching (%) 
0.05 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
0.10 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
2.4 
 
 
A.2 Satisfactory to Fair Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
5 
43.55 
Rehabilitation 
(based on structural 
evaluation) 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
3 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
2 
4. 
Patching (%) 
2.6 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
10 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
4.5 
 
A.3 Poor to Fail Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
14 
20.68 
Major 
Rehabilitation/ 
Structural                    
Overlay 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
12 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
4 
4. 
Patching (%) 
15 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
14 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
8 
 
 
 
 
 

 
81 
B. MDR and RR: Major Districts Roads and Rural Roads 
 
B.1 Excellent to Good Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
0.6 
89.86 
Preventive 
Maintenance 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
0.1 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
1 
4. 
Patching (%) 
0.5 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
1 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
2.8 
 
B.2 Satisfactory to Fair Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
6.5 
51.11 
Rehabilitation 
(based on structural 
evaluation) 
2. 
Raveling (%)  
4.7 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
6 
4. 
Patching (%) 
6 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
8 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
9.2 
 
 
B.3 Poor to Fail Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
20 
25.66 
Major 
Rehabilitation/ 
Structural                    
Overlay 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
16 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
10 
4. 
Patching (%) 
12 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
22 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
82 
C. Urban Roads  
 
C.1 Excellent to Good Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
0.5 
96.1 
Routine 
Maintenance 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
0.2 
3. 
Potholes (Number) 
0 
4. 
Patching (%) 
0.1 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
0 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
2.4 
 
C.2 Satisfactory to Fair Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
5 
55.64 
Rehabilitation 
(based on structural 
evaluation) 
2. 
Raveling (%)  
2 
3. 
Potholes (Number)  
3 
4. 
Patching (%) 
3.5 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
4 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
6 
 
C.3 Poor to Fair Category Road 
S. No.  
Parameter 
Extent, % 
PCI 
Maintenance 
Recommendations 
1. 
Cracking (%) 
12 
35.08 
Major 
Rehabilitation/ 
Structural                    
Overlay 
2. 
Ravelling (%)  
8 
3. 
Potholes 
(Number) 
4 
4. 
Patching (%) 
10 
5. 
Rut Depth (mm) 
12 
5. 
IRI (m/km) 
7 
 

